
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 4015 Introduced in Senate (IS)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 4015

To authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants 
   to eligible entities for creating or enhancing capacity to treat 
     patients with Long COVID through a multidisciplinary approach.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 6, 2022

 Ms. Duckworth (for herself, Mr. Markey, and Mr. Kaine) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                 Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants 
   to eligible entities for creating or enhancing capacity to treat 
     patients with Long COVID through a multidisciplinary approach.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Targeting Resources for Equitable 
Access to Treatment for Long COVID Act'' or the ``TREAT Long COVID 
Act''.

SEC. 2. GRANT PROGRAM TO SUPPORT MULTIDISCIPLINARY LONG COVID CLINICS.

    (a) Establishment of Program.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
Services (in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall award 
grants on a competitive basis to eligible entities for the purpose of 
creating or enhancing capacity to treat patients with Long COVID (also 
referred to as post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 and post-COVID 
conditions) through a multidisciplinary approach.
    (b) Use of Funds.--An eligible entity receiving a grant under this 
section shall use the grant, for the purpose described in subsection 
(a), to--
            (1) enhance the capacity of one or more existing 
        multidisciplinary Long COVID clinics to serve the Long COVID 
        population; or
            (2) create one or more multidisciplinary clinics to address 
        the physical and mental health needs of Long COVID patients.
    (c) Eligible Entities.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
this section, an entity shall be a health care provider, Federally 
qualified health center (as defined in section 1861(aa) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(aa)), rural health clinic (as defined in 
such section), urban Indian health center, or State or local public 
health department, that--
            (1)(A) operates an existing multidisciplinary Long COVID 
        clinic or other specialized Long COVID program; or
            (B) demonstrates an intent to create a multidisciplinary 
        Long COVID clinic or other specialized Long COVID program; and
            (2) submits to the Secretary an application at such time, 
        in such manner, and containing such information and assurances 
        as the Secretary may require.
    (d) Equitable Access.--In order to ensure equitable access to 
treatment--
            (1) no grantee under this section shall deny access to 
        treatment with respect to Long COVID based on insurance 
        coverage, date or method of diagnosis, or previous 
        hospitalization;
            (2) a grantee under this section shall with respect to Long 
        COVID--
                    (A) offer equity-centered resources, information, 
                and training to safety net health systems; and
                    (B) disseminate best practices and treatment 
                approaches that enhance access to high-quality care to 
                everyone where they live; and
            (3) treatment for Long COVID shall be included as a COVID-
        19 treatment, consistent with the American Rescue Plan Act of 
        2021 (Public Law 117-2).
    (e) Grant Amount.--The amount of a grant awarded under this section 
shall not exceed $2,000,000.
    (f) Grant Period.--The period of a grant under this section shall 
not exceed 3 years, with an opportunity for renewal.
    (g) Priority.--In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary 
shall give priority to eligible entities that--
            (1) submit a plan to engage with medically underserved 
        communities, and with populations disproportionately impacted 
        by COVID-19, in a degree sufficient to advance health care 
        equity in Long COVID treatment and outcomes;
            (2) demonstrate capacity (or an intent to build capacity) 
        to facilitate patient access to multidisciplinary health care 
        providers with expertise in treating Long COVID symptoms and 
        other complex post-viral conditions, including such providers 
        who are primary and specialty care physicians (such as 
        physiatrists, neurologists, cardiologists, immunologists, and 
        pulmonologists), therapists, nurses, care coordinators, social 
        workers, nutritionists, and behavioral health specialists; and
            (3) submit a plan to ensure ongoing multidisciplinary 
        continuing education on infection-triggered conditions for--
                    (A) physicians treating Long COVID; and
                    (B) other physicians and health care workers who 
                are not treating Long COVID, but are otherwise serving 
                patients in the community.
    (h) Reports.--
            (1) Annual reports by grantees to secretary.--On an annual 
        basis, a recipient of a grant under this section shall--
                    (A) submit to the Secretary, and make publicly 
                available, a report on the activities carried out 
                through the grant; and
                    (B) include quantitative and qualitative 
                evaluations of such activities, including the 
                experience of individuals who received health care 
                through such grant.
            (2) Annual reports by secretary to congress.--Not later 
        than the last day of each of fiscal years 2023 through 2025, 
        the Secretary shall submit to the Congress, and make publicly 
        available, a report that--
                    (A) summarizes the reports received under paragraph 
                (1);
                    (B) evaluates the effectiveness of grants under 
                this section; and
                    (C) makes recommendations with respect to expanding 
                coverage for clinical care for Long COVID.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2025.
                                 
