
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7012 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7012

 To provide appropriations for certain activities relating to Ukraine, 
  prohibit the importation of certain petroleum products from Russia, 
              Iran, and Venezuela, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 9, 2022

  Mrs. Boebert (for herself, Mr. Harris, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. 
  Tiffany, and Mr. Bishop of North Carolina) introduced the following 
bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
  addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, Ways and Means, 
  Transportation and Infrastructure, Agriculture, Armed Services, and 
  Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide appropriations for certain activities relating to Ukraine, 
  prohibit the importation of certain petroleum products from Russia, 
              Iran, and Venezuela, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ukraine Assistance and American 
Energy Acceleration Act''.

SEC. 2. APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR EMERGENCY 
              ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Provision of Defense Assistance to Ukraine.--There is 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $1,000,000,000 to the Secretary of Defense for fiscal 
years 2022 and 2023, to remain available until expended, for 
``Procurement, Defense-wide'' to provide the Government of Ukraine the 
following:
            (1) Small arms, grenade launchers, and ammunition 
        previously allocated for provision to Afghan Security Forces 
        under the Afghan Security Forces Fund.
            (2) Man-portable missiles and rockets in a ready-to-fire 
        configuration, including Dragon, Javelin, FIM-92 Stinger 
        Missiles, and other light anti-tank weapons (66mm), shoulder-
        launched multipurpose assault weapon rockets (83mm), M136 (AT4) 
        anti-armor launchers, and cartridges (84mm).
            (3) Night vision devices, including fused panoramic night-
        vision goggles, squad binocular night vision goggles, and night 
        vision and thermal and infrared sights for crew-served weapons.
            (4) Unmanned aerial vehicles (tactical and armed) and crew-
        served weapons ammunition with low-light and infrared night 
        sights.
            (5) Secure, commercial-off-the-shelf communications 
        capabilities, including hand-held secure communications 
        devices.
            (6) Individual protective equipment.
            (7) Field rations.
            (8) Field medical kits.
    (b) Provision of Defense Assistance to North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Members.--There is appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000 to the Secretary of 
Defense for fiscal years 2022 and 2023, to remain available until 
expended, for ``Procurement, Defense-wide'' to provide the Governments 
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization with planes, tanks, 
munitions, and anti-air and anti-tank weaponry to bolster the 
deterrence efforts of those Governments against an invasion by the 
Russian Federation and to replace equipment donated by those 
Governments to the Government of Ukraine.
    (c) Procurement of Replacement Defense Articles.--
            (1) In general.--There is appropriated, out of any money in 
        the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000 to the 
        Secretary of Defense for fiscal years 2022 and 2023, to remain 
        available until expended, for ``Procurement'' to procure 
        defense articles to replace defense articles transferred to 
        Ukraine and members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
            (2) Definition of defense article.--In this subsection, the 
        term ``defense article'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 47 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794).

SEC. 3. APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR EMERGENCY 
              HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE.

    (a) International Disaster Assistance.--There is appropriated, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $500,000,000 
to the Secretary of State for fiscal years 2022 and 2023, to remain 
available until expended, for ``International Disaster Assistance'' to 
address humanitarian needs in Ukraine due to the impact caused by the 
Russian Federation's invasion.
    (b) Refugee Relocation Assistance.--There is appropriated, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $250,000,000 to 
the Secretary of State for fiscal years 2022 and 2023, to remain 
available until expended, for ``Refugee Relocation Assistance'' to 
provide monetary and personnel assistance for the Polish, Moldovan, and 
European Union member states that are accepting Ukrainian refugees.

SEC. 4. APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY FOR EMERGENCY 
              ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Electrical Grid Integration.--There is appropriated, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $30,000,000, to the 
Secretary of Energy for fiscal years 2022 and 2023, to remain available 
until expended, for ``Electrical Grid Integration'', to integrate the 
Ukraine electrical grid European Network of Transmission System 
Operators for Electricity.

SEC. 5. PROHIBITION ON IMPORTATION OF RUSSIAN, IRANIAN, AND VENEZUELAN 
              PETROLEUM PRODUCTS.

    (a) Prohibition.--The President shall prohibit the importation of 
all petroleum products (as such term is defined in section 3 of the 
Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6202)) originating from 
Russia, Iran, or Venezuela into the customs territory of the United 
States (as such term is defined in General Note 2 of the Harmonized 
Tariff Schedule).
    (b) Penalties.--The President is authorized to use appropriate 
authorities to impose such civil or criminal penalties as may be 
necessary to enforce the prohibition under subsection (a).
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--For purposes of this 
section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the 
        President pro tempore of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
        on Energy and Commerce, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
            (3) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, and the Select 
        Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF KEYSTONE XL PIPELINE.

    (a) Authorization.--TransCanada Keystone Pipeline, L.P. may 
construct, connect, operate, and maintain the pipeline facilities at 
the international border of the United States and Canada at Phillips 
County, Montana, for the import of oil from Canada to the United States 
described in the Presidential Permit of March 29, 2019 (84 Fed. Reg. 
1310).
    (b) Presidential Permits.--No Presidential permit or any other 
Executive order shall be required for the construction, connection, 
operation, or maintenance of the pipeline facilities described in 
subsection (a).

SEC. 7. PROHIBITION ON MORATORIA OF NEW ENERGY LEASES ON FEDERAL LAND 
              AND WATERS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Critical mineral.--The term ``critical mineral'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 7002(a) of the Energy Act 
        of 2020 (30 U.S.C. 1601(a)).
            (2) Federal land.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``Federal land'' means--
                            (i) National Forest System land;
                            (ii) public lands (as defined in section 
                        103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702));
                            (iii) the outer Continental Shelf in 
                        section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
                        Act (43 U.S.C. 1331); and
                            (iv) land managed by the Secretary of 
                        Energy.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``Federal land'' includes 
                land described in clauses (i) through (iv) in 
                subparagraph (A) for which the rights to the surface 
                estate or subsurface estate are owned by a non-Federal 
                entity.
            (3) President.--The term ``President'' means the President 
        or any designee of the President, including--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture;
                    (B) the Secretary of Energy; and
                    (C) the Secretary.
    (b) Prohibitions.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the President may officially not carry out any action that 
        would prohibit or substantially delay the issuance of any of 
        the following on Federal land, unless such an action has been 
        authorized by an Act of Congress:
                    (A) New oil and gas leases, drill permits, 
                approvals, or authorizations.
                    (B) New coal leases, permits, approvals, or 
                authorizations.
                    (C) New hardrock leases, permits, approvals, or 
                authorizations.
                    (D) New critical minerals leases, permits, 
                approvals, or authorizations.
            (2) Prohibition on withdrawal.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the President may not withdraw any Federal 
        land from forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the 
        public land laws, location, entry, and patent under the mining 
        laws, or disposition under laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials unless the withdrawal 
        has been authorized by an Act of Congress.

SEC. 8. OIL AND NATURAL GAS LEASING.

    (a) Onshore Lease Sales.--
            (1) Requirement to immediately resume onshore oil and gas 
        lease sales.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior 
                (referred to in this Act as the ``Secretary'') shall 
                immediately resume oil and gas lease sales in 
                compliance with the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 
                et seq.).
                    (B) Requirement.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
                any oil and gas lease sale under subparagraph (A) is 
                conducted immediately on completion of all applicable 
                scoping, public comment, and environment analysis 
                requirements under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 
                181 et seq.) and the National Environmental Policy Act 
                of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
            (2) Annual oil and natural gas lease sales.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, in accordance with the Mineral 
                Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.), April 1, 2022, the 
                Secretary shall conduct a minimum of 4 oil and natural 
                gas lease sales annually in each of the following 
                States:
                            (i) Wyoming.
                            (ii) New Mexico.
                            (iii) Colorado.
                            (iv) Utah.
                            (v) Montana.
                            (vi) North Dakota.
                            (vii) Oklahoma.
                            (viii) Nevada.
                            (ix) Any other State in which there is land 
                        available for oil and natural gas leasing under 
                        that Act.
                    (B) Requirement.--In conducting a lease sale under 
                subparagraph (A) in a State described in that 
                subparagraph, the Secretary shall offer all parcels 
                eligible for oil and gas development under the resource 
                management plan in effect for the State.
                    (C) Replacement sales.--If, for any reason, a lease 
                sale under subparagraph (A) for a calendar year is 
                canceled, delayed, or deferred, including for lack of 
                eligible parcels, the Secretary shall conduct a 
                replacement sale during the same calendar year.
    (b) Offshore Lease Sales.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct all lease 
        sales described in the 2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil 
        and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program (November 2016) that 
        have not been conducted as of the date of enactment of this Act 
        by not later than April 1, 2022.
            (2) Gulf of mexico region annual lease sales.--
        Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, no later than 30 
        days following the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        conduct a minimum of 4 region-wide oil and natural gas lease 
        sales annually in the Gulf of Mexico Region of the outer 
        Continental Shelf, which shall include the following areas 
        described in the 2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas 
        Leasing Proposed Final Program (November 2016):
                    (A) The Central Gulf of Mexico Planning Area.
                    (B) The Western Gulf of Mexico Planning Area.
            (3) Alaska region annual lease sales.--Notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law, beginning 30 days after the enactment 
        of this Act, the Secretary shall conduct a minimum of 2 region-
        wide oil and natural gas lease sales annually in the Alaska 
        Region of the outer Continental Shelf, as described in the 
        2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed 
        Final Program (November 2016).
            (4) Requirements.--In conducting lease sales under 
        paragraphs (2) and (3) the Secretary shall--
                    (A) issue leases to the highest responsibly 
                qualified bidder or bidders; and
                    (B) include in each lease sale all unleased areas 
                that are not subject to restrictions as of the date of 
                the lease sale.
            (5) Outer continental shelf oil and gas leasing program.--
        Section 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
        1344) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), in the first sentence of the 
                matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
                ``subsections (c) and (d) of this section'' and 
                inserting ``subsections (c) through (f)'';
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (f) through (h) as 
                subsections (g) through (i), respectively; and
                    (C) by inserting after subsection (e) the 
                following:
    ``(f) Subsequent Leasing Programs.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 36 months after 
        conducting the first lease sale under an oil and gas leasing 
        program prepared pursuant to this section, the Secretary shall 
        begin preparing the subsequent oil and gas leasing program 
        under this section.
            ``(2) Requirement.--Each subsequent oil and gas leasing 
        program under this section shall be approved not later than 180 
        days before the expiration of the previous oil and gas leasing 
        program.''.

SEC. 9. EXPEDITED APPROVAL FOR NATURAL GAS INTERSTATE PIPELINES.

    Subsection (c) of section 7 of the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 
717F(c)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity.--
            ``(1) Application.--
                    ``(A) Requirement to apply for certificate.--
                            ``(i) In general.--No natural-gas company 
                        or person which will be a natural-gas company 
                        upon completion of any proposed construction or 
                        extension shall engage in the transportation or 
                        sale of natural gas, subject to the 
                        jurisdiction of the Commission, or undertake 
                        the construction or extension of any facilities 
                        therefor, or acquire or operate any such 
                        facilities or extensions thereof, unless there 
                        is in force with respect to such natural-gas 
                        company a certificate of public convenience and 
                        necessity issued by the Commission authorizing 
                        such acts or operations.
                            ``(ii) Prior operations.--If any such 
                        natural-gas company or predecessor in interest 
                        was bona fide engaged in transportation or sale 
                        of natural gas, subject to the jurisdiction of 
                        the Commission, on the effective date of this 
                        amendatory Act, over the route or routes or 
                        within the area for which application is made 
                        and has so operated since that time, the 
                        Commission shall issue such certificate without 
                        requiring further proof that public convenience 
                        and necessity will be served by such operation, 
                        and without further proceedings, if application 
                        for such certificate is made to the Commission 
                        within ninety days after the effective date of 
                        this amendatory Act. Pending the determination 
                        of any such application, the continuance of 
                        such operation shall be lawful.
                            ``(iii) Projects that meet safety 
                        regulations.--With respect to any application 
                        for a certificate of public convenience and 
                        necessity under clause (i) for which the 
                        Commission determines that project covered by 
                        the application meets all safety regulations in 
                        effect as of the date of the application, the 
                        Commission shall issue the certificate without 
                        requiring further proof that public convenience 
                        and necessity will be served by the project, 
                        and without further proceedings.
                    ``(B) Hearings.--In all cases other than the cases 
                described in clauses (ii) and (iii) of subparagraph 
                (A), the Commission shall set the matter for hearing 
                and shall give such reasonable notice of the hearing 
                thereon to all interested persons as in its judgment 
                may be necessary under rules and regulations to be 
                prescribed by the Commission; and the application shall 
                be decided in accordance with the procedure provided in 
                subsection (e) of this section and such certificate 
                shall be issued or denied accordingly: Provided, 
                however, That the Commission may issue a temporary 
                certificate in cases of emergency, to assure 
                maintenance of adequate service or to serve particular 
                customers, without notice or hearing, pending the 
                determination of an application for a certificate, and 
                may by regulation exempt from the requirements of this 
                section temporary acts or operations for which the 
                issuance of a certificate will not be required in the 
                public interest.''.

SEC. 10. DOMESTIC ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 102(2) of the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                inserting ``in the United States'' after ``human 
                environment'';
                    (B) in clause (i), by inserting ``in the United 
                States'' after ``proposed action''; and
                    (C) in clause (ii), by inserting ``in the United 
                States'' after ``environmental effects''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (F), by inserting ``in any proposal or 
        other major Federal action that involves the funding or 
        development of projects outside the United States or the 
        exclusive economic zone of the United States,'' before 
        ``recognize''.
    (b) Implementing Regulations.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Council on Environmental Quality shall 
revise the implementing regulations of the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) under subchapter A of 
chapter V of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor 
regulations), in accordance with the amendments made by subsection (a).

SEC. 11. LIMITATION.

    None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to carry 
out Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Updated Pipeline Certificate 
Policy Statement (Public Law 18-1-000) updated February 17, 2022.

SEC. 12. RESPONSIBLE ENERGY PRODUCTION IN THE ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE 
              REFUGE.

    (a) Applicability to Section 1002 of the Arctic National Wildlife 
Refuge.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, title II of Public Law 115-97 is the law of the land and 
        any Executive order, secretarial order or regulation aiming to 
        block this title shall have no force or effect.

SEC. 13. NATURAL GAS EXPORTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) increasing clean and safe natural gas exports will lead 
        to increased investment and development of domestic supplies of 
        natural gas that will contribute to job growth and economic 
        development; and
            (2) the export of clean and safe natural gas to other 
        nations is of vital national interest to the United States.
    (b) Natural Gas Exports.--Section 3(c) of the Natural Gas Act (15 
U.S.C. 717b(c)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``or any other nation not excluded by this 
        section'' after ``trade in natural gas'';
            (2) by inserting ``and in any event by not later than 60 
        days after the date on which the application is received'' 
        before the period at the end;
            (3) by striking ``(c) For purposes'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(c) Expedited Application and Approval Process.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Exclusions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Any nation subject to sanctions 
                or trade restrictions imposed by the United States is 
                excluded from expedited approval under paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Designation by president or congress.--The 
                President or Congress may designate nations that may be 
                excluded from expedited approval under paragraph (1) 
                for reasons of national security.
            ``(3) Order not required.--No order is required under 
        subsection (a) to authorize the export or import of any natural 
        gas to or from Canada or Mexico.''.

SEC. 14. PENDING APPLICATIONS TO EXPORT NATURAL GAS.

    All applications to export natural gas from the United States to a 
foreign country submitted under section 3(a) of the Natural Gas Act (15 
U.S.C. 717b(a)) during the period beginning on January 1, 2020, and 
ending on January 1, 2025, are deemed approved.
                                 
