
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7348 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7348

 To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to establish a refundable 
                tax credit for commercial truck drivers.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 31, 2022

Ms. Spanberger (for herself and Mr. Gallagher) introduced the following 
      bill; which was referred to the Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to establish a refundable 
                tax credit for commercial truck drivers.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Strengthening Supply Chains Through 
Truck Driver Incentives Act of 2022''.

SEC. 2. CREDIT FOR COMMERCIAL TRUCK DRIVERS.

    (a) In General.--The Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
inserting after section 36B the following new section:

``SEC. 36C. CREDIT FOR COMMERCIAL TRUCK DRIVERS.

    ``(a) Allowance of Credit.--In the case of an eligible individual, 
there shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this 
subtitle an amount equal to $7,500 for the taxable year.
    ``(b) Eligible Individual.--For the purposes of this section, the 
term `eligible taxpayer' means, with respect to a taxable year, an 
individual--
            ``(1) who holds a valid Class A commercial driver's license 
        (except as provided in subsection (c)) who operates a tractor-
        trailer combination that qualifies as a Group A vehicle under 
        section 383.91(a)(1) of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations,
            ``(2) whose adjusted gross income for the taxable year does 
        not exceed--
                    ``(A) in the case of a joint return or surviving 
                spouse, $135,000,
                    ``(B) in the case of an individual who is a head of 
                household, $112,500, or
                    ``(C) in the case of any other individual, $90,000, 
                and
            ``(3) who drove such a vehicle in the course of a trade or 
        business--
                    ``(A) not less than 1900 hours during such taxable 
                year, or
                    ``(B) in the case of an individual who did not 
                drive a commercial truck in the preceding taxable year, 
                not less than an average of 40 hours per week with 
                respect to weeks during the taxable year in which such 
                individual drove such a vehicle in the course of a 
                trade or business.
    ``(c) Special Rule for Apprentices.--With respect to an individual 
enrolled in an apprenticeship program registered under the Act of 
August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the `National Apprenticeship Act'), 
who, upon completion or in the course of such apprenticeship program 
will receive a Class A commercial driver's license--
            ``(1) the requirements of subsection (b)(1) shall not 
        apply, and
            ``(2) such individual may count training hours in such 
        program as hours driving a vehicle described in subsection 
        (b)(1) for the purposes of this section.
    ``(d) Special Rule for New Truck Drivers.--Except as provided in 
subsection (e), in the case of an eligible taxpayer who did not drive a 
commercial truck in the course of a trade or business during the 
preceding taxable year, subsection (a) shall be applied by substituting 
`$10,000' for `$7,500'.
    ``(e) Special Rule for Drivers With Less Than 1420 Hours.--In the 
case of an eligible taxpayer who did not drive a commercial truck in 
the preceding taxable year who drives a commercial truck for less than 
1420 hours in the course of a trade or business during the taxable 
year, the amount of the credit allowed by subsection (a) shall be the 
amount that bears the same proportion to the dollar amount (determined 
without regard to this subsection) with respect to the individual under 
subsection (a) as the number of hours such individual drove a 
commercial truck in the course of a trade or business during such 
taxable years bears to 1420 hours.
    ``(f) Inflation Adjustment.--In the case of any taxable year 
beginning after 2022, the dollar amounts in this section shall be 
increased by an amount equal to--
            ``(1) such dollar amount, multiplied by
            ``(2) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under 
        section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in which the taxable year 
        begins, determined by substituting `calendar year 2021' for 
        `calendar year 2016' in subparagraph (A)(ii).
    ``(g) Termination Date.--This section shall not apply to any 
taxable year beginning after December 31, 2023.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 6211(b)(4)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986 is amended by inserting ``, 36C'' after ``36B''.
            (2) Section 1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code, is 
        amended by inserting ``, 36C'' after ``, 36B''.
            (3) The table of sections for subpart C of part IV of 
        subchapter A of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
        is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 36B 
        the following new item:

``Sec. 36C. Credit for commercial truck drivers.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years ending on or after December 31, 2022.
                                 
