
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 1031 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 1031

 Impeaching Joseph R. Biden, President of the United States, for high 
                        crimes and misdemeanors.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 5, 2022

Mr. Posey submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Impeaching Joseph R. Biden, President of the United States, for high 
                        crimes and misdemeanors.

    Resolved, That Joseph R. Biden, President of the United States, is 
impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors, and that the following 
articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
     Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people 
of the United States of America, against Joseph R. Biden, President of 
the United States of America, in maintenance and support of its 
impeachment against him for high crimes and misdemeanors.

                               article i 

    In his conduct of the office of President of the United States, 
Joseph R. Biden in violation of his constitutional oath faithfully to 
execute the office of President of the United States and, to the best 
of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the 
United States, and in violation or the constitutional duties of the 
office of President of the United States prescribed in article II, 
section 3 of the U.S. Constitution, has failed to take care that the 
laws be faithfully executed, in that:
    President Biden failed to secure the U.S.-Mexico Border by failing 
to enforce the Nation's immigration laws and abandoning U.S. government 
agents to act unsupported by the U.S. government enforcement in the 
effort to secure our borders.
    President Biden ended the Migrant Protection Protocol policies that 
required migrants seeking asylum to wait outside of the United States 
without due process as required by the Administrative Procedures Act.
    President Biden abrogated Federal responsibilities with respect to 
testing incoming migrants for COVID-19.
    President Biden without authority from Congress or the Constitution 
released thousands of migrants who entered the United States illegally 
without a date to appear in court for immigration hearings.
    President Biden knowingly caused to be released migrants having 
tested positive for COVID-19 into the United States, and knowingly 
transported COVID-19 positive migrants throughout the United States.
    Wherefore President Biden, by such conduct, thus warrants 
impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to 
hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United 
States.

                              article ii 

    In his conduct of the office of President of the United States, 
Joseph R. Biden, in violation of his constitutional oath faithfully to 
execute the office of President of the United States and, to the best 
of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the 
United States, and in violation of the constitutional duties of the 
office of President of the United States as set forth in article IV, 
section 4 of the U.S. Constitution has failed to ensure that the United 
States protect each of the States against invasion, in that:
    President Biden has permitted and even encouraged the unlawful 
entry of thousands of migrants into the United States across the U.S.-
Mexico Border.
    President Biden, by encouraging and permitting unlawful emigration 
across the U.S.-Mexico border, also permitted the unlawful entry of 
persons known to be terrorists and persons known to belong to foreign 
political terrorist entities that intend great harm to the United 
States.
    President Biden, by failing to prevent the entry of known 
terrorists and persons known to belong to foreign political terrorist 
entities intending great harm to the U.S. across the U.S.-Mexico 
border, has failed to protect states from foreign invasion.
    Wherefore President Biden, by such conduct, thus warrants 
impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to 
hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United 
States.
                                 
