
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7575 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7575

 To require the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Energy and Secretary of Education, to submit a report on current and 
future trends and shortages in the clean energy technology industry to 
achieve a clean energy economy, and to provide grants to establish and 
enhance training programs for any occupation or field of work for which 
           a shortage is identified, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 26, 2022

 Mr. Delgado introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                    Committee on Education and Labor

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Energy and Secretary of Education, to submit a report on current and 
future trends and shortages in the clean energy technology industry to 
achieve a clean energy economy, and to provide grants to establish and 
enhance training programs for any occupation or field of work for which 
           a shortage is identified, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Green Jobs and Opportunity Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The 21st century has some of the highest recorded 
        temperatures in known history.
            (2) Scientists have high confidence that global 
        temperatures will continue to rise for decades to come, largely 
        due to greenhouse gases produced by human activities.
            (3) According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
        Change (IPCC), which includes more than 1,300 scientists from 
        the United States and other countries, there will likely be a 
        temperature rise of 2.5 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit over the next 
        century.
            (4) With only around 4.4 percent of the Earth's population, 
        World Bank studies have found that the United States is the 
        second largest contributor of carbon dioxide emissions at 14.6 
        metric tons of CO&lt;INF&gt;2&lt;/INF&gt; per capita.
            (5) When the world gets hotter, it can fuel the 
        proliferation of drought, typhoons, hurricanes, wildfires, and 
        general habitat change, and can affect the availability of food 
        and water, among other issues.
            (6) IPCC findings have revealed that the United States is 
        projected to lose more than $500,000,000,000 in annual economic 
        output by the year 2100 from global warming.
            (7) Additionally, the IPCC discovered that to avoid the 
        most severe impacts of a changing climate, net-zero global 
        emissions by 2050 will be required.
            (8) According to the Brookings Institution, a clean economy 
        would encompass a vast array of industries and jobs directly 
        involved in producing goods and providing services with an 
        environmental benefit.
            (9) Under the 2019 Clean Jobs America report by E2 
        (Environmental Entrepreneurs), it is estimated that 3.26 
        million workers are currently employed in, or are engaged in 
        closely related activities, to the clean economy.
            (10) According to the International Labor Organization, by 
        2030, it is projected that over 24 million new clean energy 
        jobs will be needed globally to transition to a clean economy.
            (11) To meet this clean energy agenda, investing in job 
        training will be crucial to ensuring the United States has a 
        readied workforce.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to ensure the current 
United States workforce is prepared to transition to a clean energy 
economy.

SEC. 3. 21ST CENTURY WORKFORCE TRENDS AND SHORTAGES.

    (a) Monitoring.--The Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Energy, shall collect data to monitor current and future 
trends and shortages within the clean energy technology industry, which 
includes skilled technical personnel, electric power engineers, 
transmission engineers, and other occupations or fields of work under--
            (1) the agriculture and forestry industry;
            (2) the electric utility industry;
            (3) the manufacturing industry;
            (4) the wholesale trade industry;
            (5) the professional and business services industry; and
            (6) the manufacturing and operation and maintenance 
        industries for component parts of clean energy technologies.
    (b) Report on Current and Future Trends and Shortages.--Not later 
than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and on a 
quarterly basis thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress, 
based on the data collected under subsection (a), a report on--
            (1) trends and shortages as of the date of such report and 
        trends and shortages projected in the next 10 years;
            (2) recommendations to prepare the workforce to address 
        such trends and shortages to meet the demands of a clean energy 
        economy, or prepare the workforce to meet such demands; and
            (3) other recommendations the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.

SEC. 4. WORKFORCE TRAINING GRANTS.

    (a) Grants.--The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Energy and the Secretary of Education, shall provide grants to eligible 
entities described in subsection (b) to establish workforce training 
programs (including distance learning) for any occupation or field of 
work for which a workforce shortage is identified or projected under 
subsection (b) or (c) of section 3.
    (b) Eligible Entity.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
subsection, an entity shall be--
            (1) an institution of higher education (as such term is 
        defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
        (20 U.S.C. 1001(a))), including a junior or community college 
        (as such term is defined in section 312(f) of such Act (20 
        U.S.C. 1058(f)));
            (2) a postsecondary vocational institution (as such term is 
        defined in section 102(c) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
        (20 U.S.C. 1002(c)));
            (3) an elementary school (as such term is defined in 
        section 8101 of the Elementary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        7801));
            (4) a secondary school (as such term is defined in section 
        8101 of the Elementary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801));
            (5) a Bureau-funded school (as such term is defined in 
        section 1141 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 
        2021));
            (6) a labor organization or joint labor-management 
        organization;
            (7) an entity that is registered under the Act of August 
        16, 1937 (commonly known as the ``National Apprenticeship 
        Act''; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.) that 
        pays all participants of an apprenticeship program compensation 
        at least the higher of $15 an hour or the applicable Federal, 
        State, or local minimum wage in the location of the program;
            (8) an area career and technical education school (as such 
        term is defined in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
        Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302)); and
            (9) an education and training provider that is listed as an 
        eligible provider of training services for a program under 
        section 122(d) of the Workforce Innovation Opportunity Act (29 
        U.S.C. 3152 (d)) that pays all participants of an 
        apprenticeship or on-the-job-training program compensation at 
        least the higher of $15 an hour or the applicable Federal, 
        State, or local minimum wage in the location of the program.
    (c) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant from the 
Secretary under this section, an entity shall submit an application to 
the Secretary containing such information as the Secretary may require, 
including but not limited to--
            (1) a description of the training the entity would provide 
        with funds from such a grant, how such training fulfills the 
        workforce needs described in subsection (b) or (c) of section 
        3, and that the workforce need being met is in an industry or 
        occupation in the region in which the training is conducted;
            (2) evidence of experience in conducting training programs 
        in the clean energy technology sector;
            (3) evidence that the program funded by such a grant will 
        aid a participating individual in finding new or more advanced 
        employment or training opportunities in the clean energy 
        technology sector and that such employment or training will 
        help the individual achieve economic self-sufficiency; and
            (4) information about the entity and any relevant 
        partnerships with the Federal Government, other worker training 
        entities, employers or employer-sponsored organizations, State 
        or local agencies, labor or joint labor-management 
        organizations, institutions of higher education, community-
        based organizations, or faith-based organizations.
    (d) Priority.--In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary 
shall give priority to eligible entities that, in carrying out training 
programs under this section, give priority to the following:
            (1) Displaced workers (particularly workers from the fossil 
        fuel industry).
            (2) Individuals with a barrier to employment (as such term 
        is defined in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102)).
            (3) Veterans, members of the reserve components of the 
        Armed Forces, or former members of such reserve components.
            (4) Members of underrepresented populations.
            (5) Frontline and vulnerable communities.
            (6) Any other identified group the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.
    (e) Grant Period and Amount.--A grant awarded under this section 
shall be awarded for a one year period and may not exceed $2,500,000.
    (f) Reporting.--Not later than two years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress 
on the grant program carried out under this section, which shall 
include--
            (1) a description of each eligible entity awarded a grant 
        under this section;
            (2) the amount of each such grant;
            (3) the activities for which such grant was used;
            (4) policy recommendations; and
            (5) any other information the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.

SEC. 5. SECRETARY'S NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    The Secretary shall establish a National Advisory Committee on the 
Clean Energy Technology workforce, referred to in this section as the 
``Advisory Committee'', to meet the objectives of this Act.
            (1) Composition.--The Advisory Committee shall have--
                    (A) 24 voting members appointed by the Secretary, 
                composed of--
                            (i) 6 representatives of employers who 
                        participate in the clean energy technology 
                        industry, including employers who participate 
                        in a registered apprenticeship program in the 
                        clean energy technology industry sponsored by a 
                        joint labor-management partnership;
                            (ii) 6 representatives of labor or joint 
                        labor-management organizations who represent 
                        workers in the clean energy technology 
                        industry;
                            (iii) 6 representatives of institutions of 
                        higher education, postsecondary vocational 
                        institutions, public high schools, an entity 
                        that carries out programs registered under the 
                        Act of August 16, 1937, and other education and 
                        training providers that are listed as an 
                        eligible provider of training services for a 
                        program under section 122(d) of the Workforce 
                        Innovation Opportunity Act; and
                            (iv) 6 representatives of environmental and 
                        clean energy community organizations; and
                    (B) members who are ex officio nonvoting 
                representatives from the Departments of Labor, 
                Education, and Energy.
            (2) Qualifications.--The members shall be selected upon the 
        basis of their experience and competence concerning workforce 
        development and training in the clean energy technology 
        industry.
            (3) Terms.--The Secretary shall appoint the members for 
        terms of 3 years.
            (4) Chairperson.--The Secretary shall designate one of the 
        members of the Advisory Committee to serve as Chairperson of 
        the Advisory Committee.
            (5) Meetings.--The Advisory Committee shall hold not fewer 
        than 2 meetings during each calendar year. All meetings of the 
        Advisory Committee shall be open to the public. A transcript 
        shall be kept of each meeting and made available for public 
        inspection.
            (6) Duties.--The Advisory Committee shall advise, consult 
        with, and make recommendations to the Secretary on matters 
        relating to the administration of this Act.

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act, 
$260,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2025.

SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided, any term 
        used in this Act that is defined in section 3 of the Workforce 
        Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102) shall have the 
        meaning given the term in such section.
            (2) Clean energy economy.--The term ``clean energy 
        economy'' means United States energy production resulting in 
        net-zero carbon emissions in accordance with the timeline 
        described in the IPCC Report to limit global warming to 1.5 C 
        above pre-industrialized levels.
            (3) Clean energy technology industry.--The term ``clean 
        energy technology industry'' includes--
                    (A) the renewable, clean, and low-carbon electric 
                power energy generation sector;
                    (B) the electric transmission sector;
                    (C) the energy storage sector; and
                    (D) the energy efficiency sector.
            (4) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of Labor.
            (5) Distance learning.--The term ``distance learning'' 
        means the transmission of educational or instructional 
        programming to geographically dispersed individuals and groups 
        via telecommunications.
            (6) Frontline and vulnerable communities.--The term 
        ``frontline and vulnerable communities'' means deindustrialized 
        communities, depopulated rural communities, and communities 
        where indigenous people, people of color, migrants, low-income 
        workers, women, the elderly, people with disabilities, and the 
        youth are disproportionately impacted.
            (7) High school.--The term ``high school'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
            (8) IPCC report.--The term ``IPCC Report'' means the report 
        entitled ``IPCC, 2018: Global warming of 1.5 C. An IPCC 
        Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5 C above 
        pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas 
        emission pathways, in the context of strengthening the global 
        response to the threat of climate change, sustainable 
        development, and efforts to eradicate poverty'' published by 
        the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on October 8, 
        2018.
            (9) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Labor.
            (10) Shortages.--The term ``shortages'' refers to when 
        workforce demand exceeds supply within an occupation or field 
        of work.
            (11) Skilled technical personnel.--The term ``skilled 
        technical personnel'' means--
                    (A) journey- and apprentice-level workers 
                (including such workers who work in full supply chain 
                and manufacturing, and operation and maintenance), who 
                are enrolled in, or have completed, a registered 
                apprenticeship program under the Act of August 16, 1937 
                (commonly known as the ``National Apprenticeship Act''; 
                50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.); and
                    (B) other skilled workers in the clean energy 
                technology industry, as determined by the Secretary.
            (12) Trend.--The term ``trend'' refers to jobs being 
        created, jobs being eliminated, lifespan of jobs, required 
        competencies of jobs, skill gaps of jobs, geographical 
        locations of jobs, ongoing training for jobs, cleanliness of 
        jobs (based on greenhouse gas reductions), current job 
        openings, projected job openings, current wages of jobs, 
        projected wages of jobs, unionization rates of jobs, and other 
        information the Secretary determines appropriate.
            (13) Underrepresented populations.--The term 
        ``underrepresented populations'' is a group of individuals 
        (such as a group of individuals from the same gender or race) 
        that comprises less than 25 percent of the individuals employed 
        in each occupation or field of work within the clean-energy 
        technology industry.
                                 
