
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7384 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7384

   To direct the Secretary of Energy to establish a grant program to 
  support energy efficiency, renewable energy, and climate resilience 
improvements at certain institutions of higher education, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 4, 2022

Mr. Lynch (for himself, Mr. Keating, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Ms. Jacobs of 
  California, Ms. DeGette, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Casten, Mr. Thompson of 
California, Mr. Gomez, Mr. Sires, Mr. Neal, and Mr. Bowman) introduced 
 the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Education 
                               and Labor

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To direct the Secretary of Energy to establish a grant program to 
  support energy efficiency, renewable energy, and climate resilience 
improvements at certain institutions of higher education, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Energy Conservation Opportunities on 
Campus Act'' or the ``ECO Campus Act''.

SEC. 2. GRANTS FOR UNIVERSITIES.

    (a) Establishment of Grant Program.--Not later than one year after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy (in this 
section referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall establish a program to 
award, on a competitive basis to covered universities, grants to 
support energy efficiency, renewable energy, and climate resilience 
improvements at such universities.
    (b) Applications.--To be eligible to receive a grant under the 
Program, a covered university shall submit to the Secretary an 
application in such form, at such time, and containing such information 
as the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (c) Special Considerations.--In awarding grants under the Program, 
the Secretary shall--
            (1) give priority to covered universities that are 
        minority-serving institutions; and
            (2) award grants in a manner that ensures geographically 
        diverse recipients.
    (d) Eligible Uses.--A grant awarded to a covered university under 
the Program may be used for the following projects on the campus of 
such university:
            (1) The purchase and installation of solar panels.
            (2) The purchase, or contracting for use, of electric 
        vehicles.
            (3) The purchase and installation of electric vehicle 
        charging infrastructure.
            (4) The purchase and installation of energy-efficient 
        windows.
            (5) Construction, repairs, or renovations to buildings to 
        improve occupant health, including construction, repairs, or 
        renovations that improve air quality or ventilation.
            (6) Construction, repairs, or renovations to buildings to 
        improve climate resilience.
            (7) Investigation and analysis with respect to energy 
        efficiency and climate resilience improvements.
            (8) The purchase and installation of microgrid systems.
            (9) The purchase and installation of energy storage 
        systems.
            (10) Repairs or renovations to district energy systems.
    (e) Limitations.--
            (1) Maximum grant amount.--A grant awarded under the 
        Program may not exceed $10,000,000.
            (2) Training costs.--A covered university awarded a grant 
        under the Program may use not more than ten percent of grant 
        funds for training costs related to a project carried out with 
        grant funds.
    (f) Reporting.--Not later than three years after the date on which 
a covered university receives a grant under the Program, the university 
shall submit to the Secretary a report detailing the use of grant 
funds.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Climate resilience.--The term ``climate resilience'' 
        means the ability to anticipate, prepare for, and respond to 
        hazardous events, trends, or disturbances related to climate.
            (2) Covered university.--The term ``covered university'' 
        means the following:
                    (A) A public institution of higher education, as 
                defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act 
                of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)).
                    (B) A public Tribal college or university, as 
                defined in section 316 of the Higher Education Act.
                    (C) A public institution of higher education 
                located in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the 
                United States, Guam, American Samoa, and the 
                Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
            (3) Energy storage system.--The term ``energy storage 
        system'' means any system, equipment, facility, or technology 
        that uses a mechanical, electrical, chemical, electrochemical, 
        or thermal process to store energy that was generated at an 
        earlier time for use at a later time, including any generated 
        energy that would otherwise be wasted.
            (4) Microgrid system.--The term ``microgrid system'' means 
        an integrated energy system that consists of interconnected 
        loads and distributed energy resources within clearly defined 
        electrical boundaries that--
                    (A) acts as a single controllable entity; and
                    (B) can operate while connected to, and while 
                disconnected from, the national or local electric grid.
            (5) Minority-serving institution.--The term ``minority-
        serving institution'' means an institution described in section 
        371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1067q(a)).
            (6) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the grant program 
        established under subsection (a).
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $76,100,000,000.
                                 
