
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6911 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6911

     To amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to prohibit the 
  participation in the Visa Waiver Program of certain countries that 
  provide citizenship for investment programs, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 3, 2022

 Mr. Owens (for himself, Mr. Cohen, and Mr. Malinowski) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
and in addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to prohibit the 
  participation in the Visa Waiver Program of certain countries that 
  provide citizenship for investment programs, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``No Travel for Traffickers Act of 
2022''.

SEC. 2. LIMITATION ON PARTICIPATION IN THE VISA WAIVER PROGRAM.

    Section 217 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1187) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(2), by adding at the end the 
        following:
                    ``(H) Not a disqualified country.--The country is 
                not a country disqualified from designation under 
                subsection (j).''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Disqualified Countries.--A country shall be ineligible for 
designation under subsection (c) as a program country if the country 
has in effect any program permitting an individual who is not a 
national of that country to be provided with citizenship, on condition 
that the individual make an investment in that country.''.

SEC. 3. LIST OF FOREIGN STATES WITH CITIZENSHIP BY INVESTMENT PROGRAMS.

    No later than 60 days after the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide to the appropriate 
congressional committees an unclassified list of countries ineligible 
for designation as program countries under section 217(j) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act.

SEC. 4. COOPERATION WITH EUROPEAN UNION AND UNITED KINGDOM.

    The Secretary of Homeland Security shall engage with partners in 
the European Union, the United Kingdom, and other relevant partners to 
eliminate Schengen area visa-free travel access for foreign states that 
are ineligible for designation as program countries under section 
217(j) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

SEC. 5. RESTRICTION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN VETTING.

    No amounts made available in appropriations Acts may be used for 
the purpose of vetting applicants for a program described in section 
217(j) of the Immigration and Nationality Act on behalf of, or at the 
request of, a foreign state, or to otherwise assist a foreign state 
with the operation of such a program.
                                 
