
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 4000 Introduced in Senate (IS)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 4000

   To require the establishment of cybersecurity information sharing 
 agreements between the Department of Homeland Security and Congress, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 5, 2022

  Mr. Portman (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Blunt, and Mr. Peters) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To require the establishment of cybersecurity information sharing 
 agreements between the Department of Homeland Security and Congress, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Intragovernmental Cybersecurity 
Information Sharing Act''.

SEC. 2. REQUIREMENT FOR INFORMATION SHARING AGREEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
consultation with other appropriate Executive agencies (as defined in 
section 105 of title 5, United States Code, including the Executive 
Office of the President) and officials, shall enter into 1 or more 
cybersecurity information sharing agreements with the Sergeant at Arms 
and Doorkeeper of the Senate and the Chief Administrative Officer of 
the House of Representatives to ensure robust collaboration between the 
executive branch and Congress on Federal cybersecurity.
    (b) Elements.--The parties to a cybersecurity information sharing 
agreement under subsection (a) shall jointly develop such elements of 
the agreement as the parties find appropriate, which may include--
            (1) direct and timely sharing of technical indicators and 
        contextual information on cyber threats and vulnerabilities;
            (2) direct and timely sharing of classified and 
        unclassified reports on cyber threats and activities; and
            (3) seating of cybersecurity personnel of the Senate or the 
        House of Representatives at cybersecurity operations centers.
    (c) Briefing to Congress.--Not later than 210 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act, and periodically thereafter, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall brief the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Rules and Administration of 
the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives on the status of 
the implementation of the agreements required under subsection (a).
                                 
