
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7313 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7313

   To amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to improve programs for 
       minority students in STEM fields, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 31, 2022

 Ms. Adams (for herself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Ms. Sewell, Mr. Turner, and 
 Mr. Bowman) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                    Committee on Education and Labor

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to improve programs for 
       minority students in STEM fields, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Supporting Diverse STEM Students 
Act''.

SEC. 2. MINORITY SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Authorized Use of Funds.--Section 353(b) of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067c(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period and 
                inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding the following at the end:
            ``(C) providing direct financial assistance to students who 
        are underrepresented in STEM; or
            ``(D) improving institutional capacity to provide--
                    ``(i) guidance counseling and academic advising;
                    ``(ii) work-study and work-based learning 
                opportunities that are aligned to a student's chosen 
                field of study;
                    ``(iii) faculty, peer, and near-peer mentorship;
                    ``(iv) summer bridge programs;
                    ``(v) undergraduate research opportunities; or
                    ``(vi) individualized academic support and 
                tutoring.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``or'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding the following at the end:
            ``(E) any of the activities described in subparagraphs (A) 
        through (D) of paragraph (1).''.
    (b) STEM Fields.--Section 356 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
is amended by striking ``science'' and inserting ``science (including 
computer science)''.
    (c) Cross-Program and Cross-Agency Cooperation.--Section 363 of the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067i) is amended to read as 
follows:

``SEC. 363. CROSS-PROGRAM AND CROSS-AGENCY COOPERATION.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall cooperate and consult with 
other programs within the Department and within Federal, State, and 
private agencies which carry out programs to improve the quality of 
science, computer science, mathematics, and engineering education.
    ``(b) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment 
of Supporting Diverse STEM Students Act, the Secretary shall, in 
consultation with all Federal agencies that have STEM education 
activities, prepare and submit to the authorizing committees a 
coordination strategy report on expanding access and opportunity for 
postsecondary students who are underrepresented in science and 
engineering that--
            ``(1) outlines efforts to coordinate Federal grant programs 
        for these populations to more effectively achieve the Federal 
        Government's objective to diversify the STEM fields; and
            ``(2) outlines strategies to align Federal Government 
        research opportunities, internships, and deferred hiring 
        programs from minority institutions receiving a grant under 
        this part for students who are underrepresented in science and 
        engineering.''.
    (d) Definitions.--Section 365 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
(20 U.S.C. 1067k) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``science and 
        engineering'' and inserting ``STEM'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (4) and redesignating paragraphs 
        (5) through (9) as paragraphs (4) through (8), respectively;
            (3) in paragraph (4), as so redesignated--
                    (A) by striking ``science and engineering'' and 
                inserting ``STEM''; and
                    (B) by striking ``scientists and engineers'' in 
                both places and inserting ``individuals in STEM''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) STEM.--The term `STEM' means the fields of science 
        (including computer science), technology, engineering, and 
        mathematics as described in section 356(a).''.
    (e) Other Financial Assistance.--Section 480(i) of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087vv(i)), as amended by section 702 
of the FAFSA Simplification Act (title VII of division FF of Public Law 
116-260), is further amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), direct financial 
        assistance provided to the student under section 353(b)(1)(C), 
        shall not be treated as other financial assistance for purposes 
        of section 471(3).''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this Act shall take 
effect on July 1, 2023, and as if included in the FAFSA Simplification 
Act (title VII of division FF of Public Law 116-260).
                                 
