
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 4042 Introduced in Senate (IS)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 4042

  To amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide Medicare 
     coverage for all physicians' services furnished by doctors of 
chiropractic within the scope of their license, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 7, 2022

 Mr. Blumenthal (for himself, Mr. Cramer, Ms. Baldwin, and Mr. Wicker) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
                          Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide Medicare 
     coverage for all physicians' services furnished by doctors of 
chiropractic within the scope of their license, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Chiropractic Medicare Coverage 
Modernization Act of 2022''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS; STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) In 1972, coverage was established under the Medicare 
        program for beneficiaries to receive chiropractic care.
            (2) Unfortunately, the antiquated statute restricts 
        beneficiaries to one service in a chiropractic clinic and 
        Medicare chiropractic coverage has not kept up with private 
        sector coverage and other Federal health delivery systems.
            (3) Today, due to positive evidence-based outcomes and cost 
        effectiveness of the services provided by doctors of 
        chiropractic, private coverage for chiropractic services has 
        evolved and State licensure for chiropractors has advanced to 
        meet patient needs and health outcomes.
            (4) This Act would bring Medicare chiropractic coverage 
        more in line with that provided with the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs, Department of Defense, the Federal Employee Health 
        Benefits Program, and private health insurance coverage.
    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this Act to expand recognition 
and coverage of a doctor of chiropractic as a ``physician'' under the 
Medicare program in connection with the performance of any function or 
action, including current service of ``manual manipulation of the spine 
to correct a subluxation'', as is legally authorized by the State in 
which such doctor performs such function or action.

SEC. 3. PROVIDING MEDICARE COVERAGE FOR ALL PHYSICIANS' SERVICES 
              FURNISHED BY DOCTORS OF CHIROPRACTIC WITHIN THE SCOPE OF 
              THEIR LICENSE.

    (a) In General.--Section 1861(r)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1395x(r)(5)) is amended by striking ``a chiropractor who is 
licensed as such by the State (or in a State which does not license 
chiropractors as such, is legally authorized to perform the services of 
a chiropractor in the jurisdiction in which he performs such services), 
and who meets uniform minimum standards promulgated by the Secretary, 
but only for the purpose of sections 1861(s)(1) and 1861(s)(2)(A) and 
only with respect to treatment by means of manual manipulation of the 
spine (to correct a subluxation) which he is legally authorized to 
perform by the State or jurisdiction in which such treatment is 
provided'' and inserting ``a doctor of chiropractic who is licensed as 
a doctor of chiropractic or a chiropractor by the State in which the 
function or action is performed and whose license provides legal 
authorization to perform such function or action in such State or in 
the jurisdiction in which the function or action is performed''.
    (b) Certain Coverage Limits.--Section 1833 of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395l) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(ee) Limitation on Payment of Services Provided by Certain 
Doctors of Chiropractic.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
part, in the case of services of a doctor of chiropractic described in 
section 1861(r)(5), payment may only be made under this part for such 
services if--
            ``(1) such services are furnished by a doctor of 
        chiropractic who is verified once, by a process designed by the 
        Secretary, as attending an educational documentation webinar, 
        or other similar electronic product, designed by the Secretary 
        or an updated modified version of such webinar, as designed by 
        the Secretary; or
            ``(2) such services are treatment by means of manual 
        manipulation of the spine to correct a subluxation.''.
                                 
