
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7237 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7237

 To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize certain mental 
  health, suicide prevention, and crisis care programs, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 28, 2022

 Mr. Griffith (for himself, Ms. Tenney, Ms. Davids of Kansas, and Ms. 
    Craig) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                    Committee on Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize certain mental 
  health, suicide prevention, and crisis care programs, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Reauthorizing Evidence-based And 
Crisis Help Initiatives Needed to Generate Improved Mental Health 
Outcomes for Patients Act of 2022'' or the ``REACHING Improved Mental 
Health Outcomes for Patients Act of 2022''.

SEC. 2. INNOVATION FOR MENTAL HEALTH.

    (a) National Mental Health and Substance Use Policy Laboratory.--
Section 501A of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-0) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``Indian tribes or 
        tribal organizations'' and inserting ``Indian Tribes or Tribal 
        organizations'';
            (2) by striking subsection (e)(3); and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there is authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2023 through 2027.''.
    (b) Priority Mental Health Needs of Regional and National 
Significance.--Section 520A of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
290bb-32) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Indian tribes or 
        tribal organizations'' and inserting ``Indian Tribes or Tribal 
        organizations''; and
            (2) in subsection (f), by striking ``$394,550,000 for each 
        of fiscal years 2018 through 2022'' and inserting 
        ``$599,036,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027''.
    (c) Integration Incentive Grants and Cooperative Agreements for 
Supporting the Improvement of Integrated Care for Primary Care and 
Behavioral Health Care.--Section 520K of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 290bb-42) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ``Indian tribes or 
        tribal organizations'' and inserting ``Indian Tribes or Tribal 
        organizations''; and
            (2) in subsection (h), by striking ``$51,878,000 for each 
        of fiscal years 2018 through 2022'' and inserting ``$52,877,000 
        for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027''.

SEC. 3. CRISIS CARE COORDINATION.

    (a) Strengthening Community Crisis Response Systems.--Section 520F 
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-37) is amended to 
read as follows:

``SEC. 520F. STRENGTHENING COMMUNITY CRISIS RESPONSE SYSTEMS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall award competitive grants to 
State and local governments, Indian Tribes, and Tribal organizations 
to--
            ``(1) enhance community-based crisis response systems; and
            ``(2) implement strategies that improve care coordination, 
        and referral to inpatient psychiatric facilities, crisis 
        stabilization units, and residential community mental health 
        and residential substance use disorder treatment facilities, as 
        appropriate, for adults with a serious mental illness, children 
        with a serious emotional disturbance, or individuals with a 
        substance use disorder.
    ``(b) Applications.--
            ``(1) In general.--To receive a grant under subsection (a), 
        an entity shall submit to the Secretary an application, at such 
        time, in such manner, and containing such information as the 
        Secretary may require.
            ``(2) Community-based crisis response plan.--An application 
        for a grant under subsection (a) shall include a plan for--
                    ``(A) promoting integration and coordination 
                between local public and private entities engaged in 
                crisis response, which shall include first responders, 
                law enforcement, emergency health care providers, 
                primary care providers, court systems, health care 
                payers, social service providers, and behavioral health 
                providers;
                    ``(B) developing memoranda of understanding with 
                public and private entities to implement crisis 
                response services;
                    ``(C) addressing gaps in community resources for 
                crisis intervention and prevention;
                    ``(D) developing models for minimizing hospital 
                readmissions, including through appropriate discharge 
                planning;
                    ``(E) developing, maintaining, or enhancing 
                directories to collect, aggregate, and display 
                information about local inpatient psychiatric 
                facilities and crisis stabilization units, and 
                residential community mental health and residential 
                substance use disorder treatment facilities, to 
                facilitate the identification and designation of such 
                facilities and units for the temporary treatment of 
                individuals in mental or substance use disorder crisis; 
                and
                    ``(F) including in such directories real-time 
                information about--
                            ``(i) the number of available beds at each 
                        facility or unit;
                            ``(ii) the types of patients that may be 
                        admitted to each facility or unit; and
                            ``(iii) any other information necessary to 
                        allow for the proper identification and 
                        designation of appropriate facilities or units 
                        for treatment of individuals in mental or 
                        substance use disorder crisis.
    ``(c) Evaluation.--An entity receiving a grant under subsection (a) 
shall submit to the Secretary, at such time, in such manner, and 
containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require, a 
report, including an evaluation of the effect of such grant on--
            ``(1) local crisis response services and measures for 
        individuals receiving crisis planning and early intervention 
        supports;
            ``(2) individuals reporting improved functional outcomes; 
        and
            ``(3) individuals receiving regular followup care following 
        a crisis.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $12,500,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2023 through 2027.''.
    (b) Mental Health Awareness Training Grants.--
            (1) In general.--Section 520J of the Public Health Service 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-41) is amended--
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``Indian 
                tribes, tribal organizations'' and inserting ``Indian 
                Tribes, Tribal organizations'';
                    (C) in paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) of subsection 
                (b), by striking ``Indian tribe, tribal organization'' 
                each place it appears and inserting ``Indian Tribe, 
                Tribal organization''; and
                    (D) in subsection (b)(7), by striking ``$14,693,000 
                for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022'' and 
                inserting ``$24,963,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 
                through 2027''.
            (2) Technical corrections.--Section 520J(b) of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-41(b)) is amended--
                    (A) in the heading of paragraph (2), by striking 
                ``Emergency services personnel'' and inserting 
                ``Emergency services personnel''; and
                    (B) in the heading of paragraph (3), by striking 
                ``Distribution of awards'' and inserting ``Distribution 
                of awards''.
    (c) Adult Suicide Prevention.--Section 520L of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-43) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``Indian tribe'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``Indian Tribe''; and
                    (B) by striking ``tribal organization'' each place 
                it appears and inserting ``Tribal organization''; and
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``$30,000,000 for the 
        period of fiscal years 2018 through 2022'' and inserting 
        ``$30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027''.

SEC. 4. TREATMENT OF SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS.

    (a) Assertive Community Treatment Grant Program.--
            (1) Technical amendment.--Section 520M(b) of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-44(b)) is amended by 
        striking ``Indian tribe or tribal organization'' and inserting 
        ``Indian Tribe or Tribal organization''.
            (2) Report to congress.--Section 520M(d)(1) of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-44(d)(1)) is amended by 
        striking ``not later than the end of fiscal year 2021'' and 
        inserting ``not later than the end of fiscal year 2026''.
            (3) Authorization of appropriations.--Section 520M(e)(1) of 
        the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-44(d)(1)) is 
        amended by striking ``$5,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 
        2018 through 2022'' and inserting ``$9,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2023 through 2027''.
    (b) Assisted Outpatient Treatment.--Subpart 3 of part B of title V 
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-31 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 520N. ASSISTED OUTPATIENT TREATMENT GRANT PROGRAM FOR 
              INDIVIDUALS WITH SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall award grants to eligible 
entities for assisted outpatient treatment programs for individuals 
with serious mental illness.
    ``(b) Consultation.--The Secretary shall carry out this section in 
consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Mental 
Health, the Attorney General of the United States, the Administrator of 
the Administration for Community Living, and the Assistant Secretary 
for Mental Health and Substance Use.
    ``(c) Selecting Among Applicants.--In awarding grants under this 
section, the Secretary--
            ``(1) may give preference to applicants that have not 
        previously implemented an assisted outpatient treatment 
        program; and
            ``(2) shall evaluate applicants based on their potential to 
        reduce hospitalization, homelessness, incarceration, and 
        interaction with the criminal justice system while improving 
        the health and social outcomes of the patient.
    ``(d) Program Requirements.--An assisted outpatient treatment 
program funded with a grant awarded under this section shall include--
            ``(1) evaluating the medical and social needs of the 
        patients who are participating in the program;
            ``(2) preparing and executing treatment plans for such 
        patients that--
                    ``(A) include criteria for completion of court-
                ordered treatment if applicable; and
                    ``(B) provide for monitoring of the patient's 
                compliance with the treatment plan, including 
                compliance with medication and other treatment 
                regimens;
            ``(3) providing for case management services that support 
        the treatment plan;
            ``(4) ensuring appropriate referrals to medical and social 
        services providers;
            ``(5) evaluating the process for implementing the program 
        to ensure consistency with the patient's needs and State law; 
        and
            ``(6) measuring treatment outcomes, including health and 
        social outcomes such as rates of incarceration, health care 
        utilization, and homelessness.
    ``(e) Report.--Not later than the end of fiscal year 2027, the 
Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
committees on the grant program under this section. Such report shall 
include an evaluation of the following:
            ``(1) Cost savings and public health outcomes such as 
        mortality, suicide, substance abuse, hospitalization, and use 
        of services.
            ``(2) Rates of incarceration of patients.
            ``(3) Rates of homelessness of patients.
            ``(4) Patient and family satisfaction with program 
        participation.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `assisted outpatient treatment' means 
        medically prescribed mental health treatment that a patient 
        receives while living in a community under the terms of a law 
        authorizing a State or local court to order such treatment.
            ``(2) The term `eligible entity' means a county, city, 
        mental health system, mental health court, or any other entity 
        with authority under the law of the State in which the entity 
        is located to implement, monitor, and oversee an assisted 
        outpatient treatment program.
    ``(g) Funding.--
            ``(1) Amount of grants.--
                    ``(A) Maximum amount.--The amount of a grant under 
                this section shall not exceed $1,000,000 for any fiscal 
                year.
                    ``(B) Determination.--Subject to subparagraph (A), 
                the Secretary shall determine the amount of each grant 
                under this section based on the population of the area 
                to be served through the grant and an estimate of the 
                number of patients to be served.
            ``(2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this section $22,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.''.
                                 
