
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4426 Reported in Senate (RS)]







                                                       Calendar No. 351
117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4426

                          [Report No. 117-100]


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 30, 2021

Received, read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

                             April 27, 2022

               Reported by Mr. Peters, without amendment

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to ensure that the needs of 
 children are considered in homeland security planning, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Homeland Security for Children 
Act''.

SEC. 2. RESPONSIBILITIES OF SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY.

    Section 102 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 112) is 
amended by adding at the end of the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Planning Requirements.--The Secretary shall ensure the head 
of each office and component of the Department takes into account the 
needs of children, including children within under-served communities, 
in mission planning and mission execution. In furtherance of this 
subsection, the Secretary shall require each such head to seek, to the 
extent practicable, advice and feedback from organizations representing 
the needs of children. The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. 
App.) shall not apply whenever such advice or feedback is sought in 
accordance with this subsection.''.

SEC. 3. TECHNICAL EXPERT AUTHORIZED.

    Paragraph (2) of section 503(b) of the Homeland Security Act (6 
U.S.C. 313(b)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (G), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (H), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(I) identify, integrate, and implement the needs 
                of children, including children within under-served 
                communities, into activities to prepare for, protect 
                against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate against 
                the risk of natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and 
                other disasters, including catastrophic incidents, 
                including by appointing a technical expert, who may 
                consult with relevant outside organizations and 
                experts, as necessary, to coordinate such integration, 
                as necessary.''.

SEC. 4. REPORT.

    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act 
and annually thereafter for five years, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs of the Senate a report describing the efforts the Department 
has undertaken to review and incorporate feedback from organizations 
representing the needs of children, including children within under-
served communities, into Department policy in accordance with 
subsection (h) of section 102 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (as 
amended by section 2 of this Act), including information on the 
following:
            (1) The designation of any individual responsible for 
        carrying out such subsection (h).
            (2) Any review, formal or informal, of Department policies, 
        programs, or activities to assess the suitability of such 
        policies, programs, or activities for children and where 
        feedback from organizations representing the needs of children 
        should be reviewed and incorporated.
            (3) Any review, change, modification, or promulgation of 
        Department policies, programs, or activities to ensure that 
        such policies, programs, or activities are appropriate for 
        children.
            (4) Coordination with organizations or experts outside the 
        Department pursuant to such subsection (h) conducted to inform 
        any such review, change, modification, or promulgation of such 
        policies, programs, or activities.
                                                       Calendar No. 351

117th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4426

                          [Report No. 117-100]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to ensure that the needs of 
 children are considered in homeland security planning, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             April 27, 2022

                       Reported without amendment
