
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 516 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]


  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                 S. 516

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To plan for and coordinate efforts to integrate advanced air mobility 
  aircraft into the national airspace system, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Advanced Air Mobility Coordination 
and Leadership Act''.

SEC. 2. ADVANCED AIR MOBILITY WORKING GROUP.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish 
an advanced air mobility interagency working group (in this section 
referred to as the ``working group'').
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that Advanced 
Air Mobility (AAM) represents a key area of sustainable transportation 
and economic growth for the United States and globally, and that it is 
imperative that the United States take a leadership role in the 
adoption and furtherance of this technology. Therefore, given the path 
to initial operations is taking place utilizing today's regulatory 
framework, it is critical that government agencies collaborate and 
focus on taking this vital industry to the next level through policy 
and investment in energy, infrastructure, security and transportation. 
The focus of the working group is interagency coordination to enable 
the maturation and growth of AAM.
    (c) Purpose.--The purpose of the working group established under 
this section is to plan for and coordinate efforts related to safety, 
infrastructure, physical security and cybersecurity, and Federal 
investment necessary for maturation of the AAM ecosystem, particularly 
passenger-carrying aircraft, in the United States in order to--
            (1) further United States leadership;
            (2) grow new transportation options;
            (3) amplify economic activity and jobs;
            (4) advance environmental sustainability and new 
        technologies; and
            (5) support emergency preparedness and competitiveness.
    (d) Membership.--The working group shall be comprised of at least 1 
representative of each of the following Federal departments and 
agencies:
            (1) Department of Transportation.
            (2) Federal Aviation Administration.
            (3) National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
            (4) Department of Commerce
            (5) Department of Defense.
            (6) Department of Energy.
            (7) Department of Homeland Security.
            (8) Department of Agriculture.
            (9) Department of Labor.
            (10) Federal Communications Commission.
            (11) Such other departments or agencies as the Secretary of 
        Transportation determines appropriate.
    (e) Coordination.--The working group shall engage with State, 
local, and Tribal governments, industry and labor stakeholders, 
stakeholder associations, and others determined appropriate by the 
Secretary of Transportation, including--
            (1) manufacturers of avionics, AAM use aircraft, propulsion 
        systems, structures, and air traffic management systems;
            (2) air carriers, commercial operators, general aviation 
        operators and future AAM operators;
            (3) airports;
            (4) fixed-based operators, as defined in FAA Advisory 
        Circular 150/5190-7;
            (5) certified labor representatives for pilots 
        associations, air traffic control specialists employed by the 
        Federal Aviation Administration, and aviation safety 
        inspectors;
            (6) State, local, and Tribal officials or public agencies, 
        with representation from both urban and rural areas;
            (7) first responders;
            (8) groups representing environmental interests;
            (9) electric utilities, energy providers and market 
        operators of electricity;
            (10) academia with experience working with industry on new 
        technology and commercialization;
            (11) groups representing the telecommunications industry; 
        and
            (12) aviation training and maintenance providers.
    (f) Review and Examination.--Not later than 1 year after the 
working group is established under subsection (a), the working group 
shall complete a review and examination of, at a minimum--
            (1) the steps that will mature AAM past initial operations;
            (2) the evaluation of air traffic control and management 
        concepts that might be considered as part of evolving AAM to 
        higher levels of traffic density;
            (3) current Federal programs and policies that could be 
        leveraged to advance the maturation of the AAM industry;
            (4) infrastructure, including aviation, surface, energy, 
        and telecommunications infrastructure, physical security and 
        cybersecurity, and utilities necessary to accommodate and 
        support expanded operations of AAM after initial 
        implementation;
            (5) steps needed to ensure a robust domestic supply chain;
            (6) anticipated benefits associated with AAM aircraft 
        operations, including economic, environmental, emergency 
        response, and transportation benefits;
            (7) the interests, roles, and responsibilities of Federal, 
        State, local, and Tribal governments affected by AAM aircraft 
        operations; and
            (8) other factors that may limit the full potential of the 
        AAM industry, including community acceptance or restrictions of 
        such operations.
    (g) AAM National Strategy.--Based on the review and examination 
performed under subsection (f), the working group shall develop an AAM 
National Strategy that includes--
            (1) recommendations regarding the safety, security, 
        infrastructure, air traffic concepts, and other Federal 
        investment or actions necessary to support the evolution of 
        early AAM to higher levels of activity and societal benefit; 
        and
            (2) a comprehensive plan detailing the roles and 
        responsibilities of each Federal department and agency, and of 
        State, local, and Tribal governments, necessary to facilitate 
        implementing the recommendations developed under paragraph (1).
    (h) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the completion of the 
review and examination performed under subsection (f), the working 
group shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report--
            (1) detailing the review and examination performed under 
        subsection (f); and
            (2) providing the AAM National Strategy, including the plan 
        and associated recommendations, developed under subsection (g).
    (i) Evaluation of Termination of Working Group.--Not later than 30 
days after the date on which the working group submits the report 
required under subsection (h), the Secretary of Transportation shall 
evaluate and decide whether to terminate the working group and shall 
notify the appropriate committees of Congress of such decision.
    (j) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Advanced air mobility; aam.--The terms ``advanced air 
        mobility'' and ``AAM'' mean an air transportation system that 
        moves people and cargo between places using innovative aircraft 
        designs (such as vertical take-off and landing (VTOL)) and new 
        technologies (such as electric or hybrid (fuel and electric) 
        driven propulsion), which are integrated into existing airspace 
        operations as well as operated in local, regional, 
        intraregional, rural, and urban environments, and which may 
        include remotely piloted or autonomous aircraft.
            (2) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
                    (D) the Committee on Transportation and 
                Infrastructure of the House of Representatives;
                    (E) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives; and
                    (F) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (3) Vertical take-off and landing; vtol.--The terms 
        ``vertical take-off and landing'' and ``VTOL'' mean an aircraft 
        with lift/thrust units used to generate powered lift and 
        control and with more than two lift/thrust units used to 
        provide lift during vertical take-off or landing.

SEC. 3. GAO STUDY AND REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall--
            (1) conduct a study on the interests, roles, and 
        responsibilities of Federal, State, local, and Tribal 
        governments affected by AAM aircraft and operations; and
            (2) submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report on the study, including the Comptroller General's 
        findings and conclusions.
    (b) Requirements.--In conducting the study required under 
subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall review the following:
            (1) The state of the law as of the enactment of this Act 
        with respect to Federal authority over operations of AAM 
        aircraft systems in the national airspace system.
            (2) The state of the law as of the enactment of this Act 
        with respect to State, local, and Tribal authority over 
        operations of AAM aircraft in the national airspace system.
            (3) Potential gaps between authorities under paragraphs (1) 
        and (2).
            (4) Proposals to facilitate the safe and financially viable 
        growth and development of the AAM industry and integration of 
        AAM aircraft into the national airspace system.

            Passed the Senate March 23, 2022.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
117th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                 S. 516

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 To plan for and coordinate efforts to integrate advanced air mobility 
  aircraft into the national airspace system, and for other purposes.
