
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6871 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6871

   To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide for certain 
 acquisition authorities for the Under Secretary of Management of the 
        Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 28, 2022

   Mr. LaTurner (for himself, Mr. Torres of New York, and Mr. Katko) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                           Homeland Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide for certain 
 acquisition authorities for the Under Secretary of Management of the 
        Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``DHS Acquisition Reform Act''.

SEC. 2. ACQUISITION AUTHORITIES FOR THE UNDER SECRETARY OF MANAGEMENT 
              OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.

    Section 701 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 341) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and 
                acquisition management'' after ``Procurement''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (6), by inserting ``(including 
                firearms and other sensitive assets)'' after 
                ``equipment'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (d), the first subsection 
        (e) (relating to the system for award management consultation), 
        and the second subsection (e) (relating to the definition of 
        interoperable communications) as subsections (e), (f), and (g), 
        respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(d) Acquisition and Related Responsibilities.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 1702(a) of title 
        41, United States Code, the Under Secretary for Management is 
        the Chief Acquisition Officer of the Department. As Chief 
        Acquisition Officer, the Under Secretary shall have the 
        authorities and perform the functions specified in section 
        1702(b) of such title, and perform all other functions and 
        responsibilities delegated by the Secretary or described in 
        this subsection.
            ``(2) Functions and responsibilities.--In addition to the 
        authorities and functions specified in section 1702(b) of title 
        41, United States Code, the functions and responsibilities of 
        the Under Secretary for Management related to acquisition (as 
        such term is defined in section 131 of such title) include the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Advising the Secretary regarding acquisition 
                management activities, considering risks of failure to 
                achieve cost, schedule, or performance parameters, to 
                ensure that the Department achieves its mission through 
                the adoption of widely accepted program management best 
                practices (as such term is defined in section 714) and 
                standards and, where appropriate, acquisition 
                innovation best practices.
                    ``(B) Leading the Department's acquisition 
                oversight body, the Acquisition Review Board.
                    ``(C) Synchronizing interagency coordination 
                relating to acquisition programs and acquisition 
                management efforts of the Department.
                    ``(D) Exercising the acquisition decision authority 
                (as such term is defined in section 714) to approve, 
                pause, modify (including the rescission of approvals of 
                program milestones), or cancel major acquisition 
                programs (as such term is defined in section 714), 
                unless the Under Secretary delegates such authority to 
                a Component Acquisition Executive (as such term is 
                defined in section 714) pursuant to paragraph (3).
                    ``(E) Providing additional scrutiny and oversight 
                for an acquisition that is not a major acquisition if--
                            ``(i) the acquisition is for a program that 
                        is important to the strategic and performance 
                        plans of the Department;
                            ``(ii) the acquisition is for a program 
                        with significant program or policy 
                        implications; and
                            ``(iii) the Secretary determines that such 
                        scrutiny and oversight for the acquisition is 
                        proper and necessary.
                    ``(F) Establishing policies for managing 
                acquisitions across the Department that promote best 
                practices (as such term is defined in section 714).
                    ``(G) Establishing policies for acquisition that 
                implement an approach that considers risks of failure 
                to achieve cost, schedule, or performance parameters 
                that all components of the Department shall comply 
                with, including outlining relevant authorities for 
                program managers to effectively manage acquisition 
                programs (as such term is defined in section 714).
                    ``(H) Ensuring that each major acquisition program 
                has a Department-approved acquisition program baseline 
                (as such term is defined in section 714), pursuant to 
                the Department's acquisition management policy that is 
                traceable to the life-cycle cost estimate of the 
                program, integrated master schedule, and operational 
                requirements.
                    ``(I) Assisting the heads of components and 
                Component Acquisition Executives in efforts to comply 
                with Federal law, the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 
                and Department acquisition management directives.
                    ``(J) Ensuring that grants and financial assistance 
                are provided only to individuals and organizations that 
                are not suspended or debarred.
                    ``(K) Distributing guidance throughout the 
                Department to ensure that contractors involved in 
                acquisitions, particularly contractors that access the 
                Department's information systems and technologies, 
                adhere to relevant Department policies related to 
                physical and information security as identified by the 
                Under Secretary.
                    ``(L) Overseeing the Component Acquisition 
                Executive organizational structure to ensure Component 
                Acquisition Executives have sufficient capabilities and 
                comply with Department acquisition policies.
                    ``(M) Developing and managing a professional 
                acquisition workforce to ensure the goods and services 
                acquired by the Department meet the needs of the 
                mission and are at the best value for the expenditure 
                of public resources.
            ``(3) Delegation of certain acquisition decision 
        authority.--The Under Secretary for Management may delegate 
        acquisition decision authority, in writing, to the relevant 
        Component Acquisition Executive for a major capital asset, 
        service, or hybrid acquisition program that has a life-cycle 
        cost estimate of at least $300,000,000 but not more than 
        $1,000,000,000, based on fiscal year 2022 constant dollars, 
        if--
                    ``(A) the component concerned possesses working 
                policies, processes, and procedures that are consistent 
                with Department acquisition policy;
                    ``(B) the Component Acquisition Executive concerned 
                has adequate, experienced, and dedicated professional 
                employees with program management training; and
                    ``(C) each major acquisition program has a 
                Department-approved acquisition program baseline, and 
                it is meeting agreed-upon cost, schedule, and 
                performance thresholds.''.

SEC. 3. OFFICE OF TEST AND EVALUATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND 
              SECURITY.

    (a) In General.--Title III of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
U.S.C. 181 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:

``SEC. 323. OFFICE OF TEST AND EVALUATION.

    ``(a) Establishment of Office.--There is established in the 
Directorate of Science and Technology of the Department an Office of 
Test and Evaluation (in this section referred to as the `Office'). The 
Office shall--
            ``(1) serve as the principal advisory office for test and 
        evaluation support across the Department; and
            ``(2) serve as the test and evaluation liaison with--
                    ``(A) Federal agencies and foreign, State, local, 
                Tribal, and territorial governments;
                    ``(B) the private sector;
                    ``(C) institutions of higher education; and
                    ``(D) other relevant entities.
    ``(b) Director.--The Office shall be led by a Director. The 
Director shall oversee the duties specified in subsection (a) and carry 
out the following responsibilities:
            ``(1) Serve as a member of the Department's Acquisition 
        Review Board.
            ``(2) Establish and update, as necessary, test and 
        evaluation policies, procedures, and guidance for the 
        Department.
            ``(3) Ensure, in coordination with the Chief Acquisition 
        Officer, the Joint Requirements Council, the Under Secretary 
        for Science and Technology, and relevant component heads, that 
        acquisition programs (as such term is defined in section 714)--
                    ``(A) complete reviews of operational requirements 
                to ensure such requirements--
                            ``(i) are informed by threats, including 
                        physical and cybersecurity threats;
                            ``(ii) are operationally relevant; and
                            ``(iii) are measurable, testable, and 
                        achievable within the constraints of cost and 
                        schedule;
                    ``(B) complete independent testing and evaluation 
                of a system or service throughout development of such 
                system or service;
                    ``(C) complete operational testing and evaluation 
                that includes all system components and incorporates 
                operators into such testing and evaluation to ensure 
                that a system or service satisfies the mission 
                requirements in the operational environment of such 
                system or service as intended in the acquisition 
                program baseline;
                    ``(D) use independent verification and validation 
                of test and evaluation implementation and results, as 
                appropriate; and
                    ``(E) document whether such programs meet all 
                operational requirements.
            ``(4) Provide oversight of test and evaluation activities 
        for major acquisition programs throughout the acquisition life 
        cycle by--
                    ``(A) approving program test and evaluation master 
                plans, plans for individual test and evaluation events, 
                and other related documentation, determined appropriate 
                by the Director;
                    ``(B) approving which independent test and 
                evaluation agent or third-party tester is selected for 
                each program; and
                    ``(C) providing an independent assessment to the 
                acquisition decision authority (as such term is defined 
                in section 714) that assesses a program's progress in 
                meeting operational requirements and operational 
                effectiveness, suitability, and resilience to inform 
                production and deployment decisions.
            ``(5) Determine if testing of a system or service conducted 
        by other Federal agencies, entities, or institutions of higher 
        education are relevant and sufficient in determining whether 
        such system or service performs as intended.
    ``(c) Annual Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date 
        of the enactment of this section and annually thereafter, the 
        Director of the Office shall submit to the Secretary, the Under 
        Secretary for Management, component heads, and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs a 
        report relating to the test and evaluation activities of the 
        major acquisition programs of the Department for the previous 
        fiscal year.
            ``(2) Elements.--Each report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    ``(A) An assessment of--
                            ``(i) test and evaluation activities 
                        conducted for each major acquisition program 
                        with respect to demonstrating operational 
                        requirements and operational effectiveness, 
                        suitability, and resilience for each such 
                        program;
                            ``(ii) any waivers of, or deviations from, 
                        approved program test and evaluation master 
                        plans referred to in subsection (b)(3)(A);
                            ``(iii) any concerns raised by the 
                        independent test and evaluation agent or third-
                        party tester selected and approved under 
                        subsection (b)(3)(B) relating to such waivers 
                        or deviations; and
                            ``(iv) any actions that have been taken or 
                        are planned to be taken to address such 
                        concerns.
                    ``(B) Recommendations with respect to resources, 
                facilities, and levels of funding made available for 
                test and evaluation activities referred to in 
                subparagraph (A).
            ``(3) Form.--Each report required under paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
        annex.
    ``(d) Relationship to Under Secretary for Science and Technology.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Under Secretary for Management and 
        the Under Secretary for Science and Technology shall coordinate 
        in matters related to Department-wide acquisitions so that 
        investments of the Directorate of Science and Technology are 
        able to support current and future requirements of the 
        components of the Department.
            ``(2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection may 
        be construed as affecting or diminishing the authority of the 
        Under Secretary for Science and Technology.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 322 the following new item:

``Sec. 323. Office of Test and Evaluation.''.

SEC. 4. ACQUISITION AUTHORITIES FOR CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.

    Paragraph (2) of section 702(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 
2002 (6 U.S.C. 342(b)) is amended by--
            (1) redesignating subparagraph (I) as subparagraph (J); and
            (2) inserting after subparagraph (H) the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(I) Oversee the costs of acquisition programs (as 
                such term is defined in section 714) and related 
                activities to ensure that actual and planned costs are 
                in accordance with budget estimates and are affordable, 
                or can be adequately funded, over the life cycle of 
                such programs and activities.''.

SEC. 5. ACQUISITION AUTHORITIES FOR CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.

    Section 703 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 343) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(b) Acquisition Responsibilities.--In addition to the 
responsibilities specified in section 11315 of title 40, United States 
Code, the acquisition responsibilities of the Chief Information 
Officer, in consultation with the Under Secretary for Management, shall 
include the following:
            ``(1) Overseeing the management of the Homeland Security 
        Enterprise Architecture and ensuring that, before each 
        acquisition decision event (as such term is defined in section 
        714), approved information technology acquisitions comply with 
        any departmental information technology management 
        requirements, security protocols, and the Homeland Security 
        Enterprise Architecture, and in any case in which information 
        technology acquisitions do not so comply, making 
        recommendations to the Department's Acquisition Review Board 
        regarding such noncompliance.
            ``(2) Providing recommendations to the Acquisition Review 
        Board regarding information technology programs and developing 
        information technology acquisition strategic guidance.''.

SEC. 6. ACQUISITION AUTHORITIES FOR UNDER SECRETARY OF STRATEGY, 
              POLICY, AND PLANS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.

    Subsection (c) of section 709 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
(6 U.S.C. 349) is amended by--
            (1) redesignating paragraphs (4) through (7) as (5) through 
        (8), respectively; and
            (2) inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(4) ensure acquisition programs (as such term is defined 
        in section 714) support the DHS Quadrennial Homeland Security 
        Review Report, the DHS Strategic Plan, the DHS Strategic 
        Priorities, and other appropriate successor documents;''.

SEC. 7. ACQUISITION AUTHORITIES FOR PROGRAM ACCOUNTABILITY AND RISK 
              MANAGEMENT (PARM) OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.

    (a) In General.--Title VII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
U.S.C. 341 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:

``SEC. 714. PROGRAM ACCOUNTABILITY AND RISK MANAGEMENT OFFICE.

    ``(a) Establishment of Office.--There is established in the 
Management Directorate of the Department a Program Accountability and 
Risk Management office. Such office shall--
            ``(1) provide consistent accountability, standardization, 
        and transparency of major acquisition programs of the 
        Department;
            ``(2) serve as the central oversight function for all 
        Department major acquisition programs; and
            ``(3) provide review and analysis of Department acquisition 
        programs, as appropriate.
    ``(b) Executive Director.--The Program Accountability and Risk 
Management office shall be led by an Executive Director. The Executive 
Director shall oversee the duties specified in subsection (a), report 
directly to the Under Secretary for Management, and carry out the 
following responsibilities:
            ``(1) Regularly monitor the performance of Department major 
        acquisition programs between acquisition decision events to 
        identify problems with cost, performance, or schedule that 
        components may need to address to prevent cost overruns, 
        performance issues, or schedule delays.
            ``(2) Assist the Under Secretary for Management in managing 
        the Department's acquisition programs, acquisition workforce, 
        and related activities of the Department.
            ``(3) Conduct oversight of individual acquisition programs 
        to implement Department acquisition program policy, procedures, 
        and guidance, with a priority on ensuring the data the office 
        collects and maintains from Department components is accurate 
        and reliable.
            ``(4) Serve as the focal point and coordinator for the 
        acquisition life-cycle review process and as the executive 
        secretariat for the Department's Acquisition Review Board.
            ``(5) Advise the persons having acquisition decision 
        authority to--
                    ``(A) make acquisition decisions consistent with 
                all applicable laws; and
                    ``(B) establish clear lines of authority, 
                accountability, and responsibility for acquisition 
                decision-making within the Department.
            ``(6) Develop standardized certification standards, in 
        consultation with the Component Acquisition Executives, for all 
        acquisition program managers.
            ``(7) Assess the results of major acquisition programs' 
        post-implementation reviews, and identify opportunities to 
        improve performance throughout the acquisition process.
            ``(8) Provide technical support and assistance to 
        Department acquisition programs and acquisition personnel, and 
        coordinate with the Chief Procurement Officer regarding 
        workforce training and development activities.
            ``(9) Assist, as appropriate, with the preparation of the 
        Future Years Homeland Security Program, and make such 
        information available to the congressional homeland security 
        committees.
            ``(10) In coordination with the Component Acquisition 
        Executives, maintain the Master Acquisition Oversight List, 
        updated quarterly, that shall serve as an inventory of all 
        major acquisition programs and non-major acquisition programs 
        within the Department, including for each such program--
                    ``(A) the component sponsoring the acquisition;
                    ``(B) the name of the acquisition;
                    ``(C) the acquisition level as determined by the 
                anticipated life-cycle cost of the program and other 
                criteria pursuant to the Department-level acquisition 
                policy;
                    ``(D) the acquisition decision authority for the 
                acquisition; and
                    ``(E) the current acquisition phase.
    ``(c) Responsibilities of Components.--Each head of a component 
shall comply with Federal law, the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and 
Department acquisition management directives established by the Under 
Secretary for Management. For each major acquisition program, each head 
of a component shall--
            ``(1) establish an organizational structure for conducting 
        acquisitions within the component, to be managed by a Component 
        Acquisition Executive;
            ``(2) obtain the resources necessary to operate such an 
        organizational structure that are aligned with the number, 
        type, size, and complexity of the acquisition programs of the 
        component; and
            ``(3) oversee sustainment of capabilities deployed by major 
        acquisition programs and non-major acquisition programs after 
        all planned deployments are completed until such capabilities 
        are retired or replaced.
    ``(d) Responsibilities of Component Acquisition Executives.--Each 
Component Acquisition Executive shall--
            ``(1) establish and implement policies and guidance for 
        managing and conducting oversight for major acquisition 
        programs and non-major acquisition programs within the 
        component at issue that comply with Federal law, the Federal 
        Acquisition Regulation, and Department acquisition management 
        directives established by the Under Secretary for Management;
            ``(2) for each major acquisition program--
                    ``(A) define baseline requirements and document 
                changes to such requirements, as appropriate;
                    ``(B) establish a complete life cycle cost estimate 
                with supporting documentation that is consistent with 
                cost estimating best practices as identified by the 
                Comptroller General of the United States;
                    ``(C) verify each life cycle cost estimate against 
                independent cost estimates or assessments, as 
                appropriate, and reconcile any differences;
                    ``(D) complete a cost-benefit analysis with 
                supporting documentation; and
                    ``(E) develop and maintain a schedule that is 
                consistent with scheduling best practices as identified 
                by the Comptroller General of the United States, 
                including, in appropriate cases, an integrated master 
                schedule;
            ``(3) ensure that all acquisition program documentation 
        provided by the component demonstrates the knowledge required 
        for successful program execution prior to final approval and is 
        complete, accurate, timely, and valid;
            ``(4) in such cases where it is appropriate, exercise the 
        acquisition decision authority to approve, pause, modify 
        (including the rescission of approvals of program milestones), 
        or cancel major acquisition programs or non-major acquisition 
        programs when delegated by the Under Secretary for Management 
        pursuant to section 701(d)(3); and
            ``(5) review, oversee, and direct activities between 
        acquisition decision events for major acquisition programs 
        within the component for which the Under Secretary for 
        Management is the acquisition decision authority.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Acquisition.--The term `acquisition' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 131 of title 41, United States Code.
            ``(2) Acquisition decision authority.--The term 
        `acquisition decision authority' means the authority, in 
        addition to the authorities and functions specified in 
        subsection (b) of section 1702 of title 41, United States Code, 
        held by the Secretary acting through the Under Secretary for 
        Management to--
                    ``(A) ensure compliance with Federal law, the 
                Federal Acquisition Regulation, and Department 
                acquisition management directives;
                    ``(B) review (including approving, pausing, 
                modifying, or canceling) an acquisition program 
                throughout the life cycle of such program;
                    ``(C) ensure that acquisition program managers have 
                the resources necessary to successfully execute an 
                approved acquisition program;
                    ``(D) ensure appropriate acquisition program 
                management of cost, schedule, risk, and system or 
                service performance of the acquisition program at 
                issue, including assessing acquisition program baseline 
                breaches and directing any corrective action for such 
                breaches;
                    ``(E) ensure that acquisition program managers, on 
                an ongoing basis, monitor cost, schedule, and 
                performance against established baselines and use tools 
                to assess risks to an acquisition program at all phases 
                of the life-cycle of such program; and
                    ``(F) establish policies and procedures for major 
                acquisition programs of the Department.
            ``(3) Acquisition decision event.--The term `acquisition 
        decision event', with respect to an acquisition program, means 
        a predetermined point within the acquisition life-cycle at 
        which the acquisition decision authority determines whether 
        such acquisition program shall proceed to the next acquisition 
        phase.
            ``(4) Acquisition program.--The term `acquisition program' 
        means the conceptualization, initiation, design, development, 
        test, contracting, production, deployment, logistics support, 
        modification, or disposal of systems, supplies, or services 
        (including construction) to satisfy the Department's needs.
            ``(5) Acquisition program baseline.--The term `acquisition 
        program baseline', with respect to an acquisition program, 
        means the cost, schedule, and performance parameters, expressed 
        in standard, measurable, quantitative terms, which must be met 
        to accomplish the goals of such program.
            ``(6) Best practices.--The term `best practices', with 
        respect to acquisition, means a knowledge-based approach to 
        capability development, procurement, and support that includes 
        the following:
                    ``(A) Identifying and validating needs.
                    ``(B) Assessing alternatives to select the most 
                appropriate solution.
                    ``(C) Establishing well-defined requirements.
                    ``(D) Developing realistic cost assessments and 
                schedules that account for the entire life-cycle of an 
                acquisition.
                    ``(E) Demonstrating technology, design, and 
                manufacturing maturity before initiating production.
                    ``(F) Using milestones and exit criteria or 
                specific accomplishments that demonstrate the 
                attainment of knowledge to support progress throughout 
                the acquisition phases.
                    ``(G) Regularly assessing and managing risks to 
                achieve requirements and cost and schedule goals.
                    ``(H) To the maximum extent possible, adopting and 
                executing standardized processes.
                    ``(I) Establishing a workforce that is qualified to 
                perform necessary acquisition roles.
                    ``(J) Integrating into the Department's mission and 
                business operations the capabilities described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (I).
            ``(7) Breach.--The term `breach', with respect to a major 
        acquisition program, means a failure to meet any cost, 
        schedule, or performance threshold specified in the most 
        recently approved acquisition program baseline.
            ``(8) Congressional homeland security committees.--The term 
        `congressional homeland security committees' means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
                House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland 
                Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
                of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations 
                of the Senate.
            ``(9) Component acquisition executive.--The term `Component 
        Acquisition Executive' means the senior acquisition official 
        within a component who is designated in writing by the Under 
        Secretary for Management, in consultation with the component 
        head, with authority and responsibility for leading a process 
        and staff to provide acquisition and program management 
        oversight, policy, and guidance to ensure that statutory, 
        regulatory, and higher level policy requirements are fulfilled, 
        including compliance with Federal law, the Federal Acquisition 
        Regulation, and Department acquisition management directives 
        established by the Under Secretary.
            ``(10) Life-cycle cost.--The term `life-cycle cost' means 
        the total cost to the Government of acquiring, operating, 
        supporting, and (if applicable) disposing of the items being 
        acquired.
            ``(11) Major acquisition program.--The term `major 
        acquisition program' means a Department capital asset, 
        services, or hybrid acquisition program that is estimated by 
        the Secretary to require an eventual total expenditure of at 
        least $300,000,000 (based on fiscal year 2022 constant dollars) 
        over its life cycle or a program identified by the Chief 
        Acquisition Officer as a program of special interest.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 710 the following new item:

``Sec. 714. Program Accountability and Risk Management office.''.

SEC. 8. ACQUISITION DOCUMENTATION.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle D of title VIII of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391 et seq.), as amended by this Act, is further 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 837. ACQUISITION DOCUMENTATION.

    ``For each major acquisition program (as such term is defined in 
section 714), the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for 
Management, shall require the head of each relevant component or office 
of the Department to--
            ``(1) maintain acquisition documentation that is complete, 
        accurate, timely, and valid, and that includes--
                    ``(A) operational requirements that are validated 
                consistent with departmental policy;
                    ``(B) a complete life-cycle cost estimate with 
                supporting documentation;
                    ``(C) verification of such life-cycle cost estimate 
                against independent cost estimates, and reconciliation 
                of any differences;
                    ``(D) a cost-benefit analysis with supporting 
                documentation;
                    ``(E) an integrated master schedule with supporting 
                documentation;
                    ``(F) plans for conducting systems engineering 
                reviews and test and evaluation activities throughout 
                development to support production and deployment 
                decisions;
                    ``(G) an acquisition plan that outlines the 
                procurement approach, including planned contracting 
                vehicles;
                    ``(H) a logistics and support plan for operating 
                and maintaining deployed capabilities until such 
                capabilities are disposed of or retired; and
                    ``(I) an acquisition program baseline that is 
                traceable to the operational requirements of the 
                program required under subparagraphs (A), (B), and (E);
            ``(2) prepare cost estimates and schedules for major 
        acquisition programs pursuant to subparagraphs (B) and (E) of 
        paragraph (1) in a manner consistent with best practices as 
        identified by the Comptroller General of the United States; and
            ``(3) ensure any revisions to the acquisition documentation 
        maintained pursuant to paragraph (1) are reviewed and approved 
        in accordance with departmental policy.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by adding after the item 
relating to section 836, as added by section 3 of this Act, the 
following new item:

``Sec. 837. Acquisition documentation.''.
                                 
