
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7271 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7271

  To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide the 2022 gas 
                     prices rebate to individuals.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 29, 2022

   Mr. Harder of California introduced the following bill; which was 
              referred to the Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide the 2022 gas 
                     prices rebate to individuals.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Putting Gas Money Back In Your 
Pocket Act''.

SEC. 2. 2022 GAS PRICES REBATE.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter B of chapter 65 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after section 6428B the following 
new section:

``SEC. 6428C. 2022 GAS PRICES REBATE.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of an eligible individual, there 
shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by subtitle A for 
the first taxable year beginning in 2022 an amount equal to the 2022 
gas prices rebate amount determined for such taxable year.
    ``(b) 2022 Gas Prices Rebate Amount.--For purposes of this section, 
the term `2022 gas prices rebate amount' means, with respect to any 
taxpayer for any taxable year, the sum of--
            ``(1) $500 ($1,000 in the case of a joint return), plus
            ``(2) $500 multiplied by the number of dependents of the 
        taxpayer for such taxable year who had attained the age of 16 
        as of the close of such taxable year.
    ``(c) Eligible Individual.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`eligible individual' means any individual other than--
            ``(1) any nonresident alien individual,
            ``(2) any individual who is a dependent of another taxpayer 
        for a taxable year beginning in the calendar year in which the 
        individual's taxable year begins, and
            ``(3) an estate or trust.
    ``(d) Definitions and Special Rules.--
            ``(1) Dependent defined.--For purposes of this section, the 
        term `dependent' has the meaning given such term by section 
        152.
            ``(2) Identification number requirement.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of a return other 
                than a joint return, the $500 amount in subsection 
                (b)(1) shall be treated as being zero unless the 
                taxpayer includes the valid identification number of 
                the taxpayer on the return of tax for the taxable year.
                    ``(B) Joint returns.--In the case of a joint 
                return, the $1,000 amount in subsection (b)(1) shall be 
                treated as being--
                            ``(i) $500 if the valid identification 
                        number of only 1 spouse is included on the 
                        return of tax for the taxable year, and
                            ``(ii) zero if the valid identification 
                        number of neither spouse is so included.
                    ``(C) Dependents.--A dependent shall not be taken 
                into account under subsection (b)(2) unless the valid 
                identification number of such dependent is included on 
                the return of tax for the taxable year.
                    ``(D) Valid identification number.--
                            ``(i) In general.--For purposes of this 
                        paragraph, the term `valid identification 
                        number' means a social security number issued 
                        to an individual by the Social Security 
                        Administration on or before the due date for 
                        filing the return for the taxable year.
                            ``(ii) Adoption taxpayer identification 
                        number.--For purposes of subparagraph (C), in 
                        the case of a dependent who is adopted or 
                        placed for adoption, the term `valid 
                        identification number' shall include the 
                        adoption taxpayer identification number of such 
                        dependent.
                    ``(E) Special rule for members of the armed 
                forces.--Subparagraph (B) shall not apply in the case 
                where at least 1 spouse was a member of the Armed 
                Forces of the United States at any time during the 
                taxable year and the valid identification number of at 
                least 1 spouse is included on the return of tax for the 
                taxable year.
                    ``(F) Coordination with certain advance payments.--
                In the case of any payment determined pursuant to 
                subsection (f)(6), a valid identification number shall 
                be treated for purposes of this paragraph as included 
                on the taxpayer's return of tax if such valid 
                identification number is available to the Secretary as 
                described in such subsection.
                    ``(G) Mathematical or clerical error authority.--
                Any omission of a correct valid identification number 
                required under this paragraph shall be treated as a 
                mathematical or clerical error for purposes of applying 
                section 6213(g)(2) to such omission.
            ``(3) Credit treated as refundable.--The credit allowed by 
        subsection (a) shall be treated as allowed by subpart C of part 
        IV of subchapter A of chapter 1.
    ``(e) Coordination With Advance Refunds of Credit.--
            ``(1) Reduction of refundable credit.--The amount of the 
        credit which would (but for this paragraph) be allowable under 
        subsection (a) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the 
        aggregate refunds and credits made or allowed to the taxpayer 
        (or, except as otherwise provided by the Secretary, any 
        dependent of the taxpayer) under subsection (f). Any failure to 
        so reduce the credit shall be treated as arising out of a 
        mathematical or clerical error and assessed according to 
        section 6213(b)(1).
            ``(2) Joint returns.--Except as otherwise provided by the 
        Secretary, in the case of a refund or credit made or allowed 
        under subsection (f) with respect to a joint return, half of 
        such refund or credit shall be treated as having been made or 
        allowed to each individual filing such return.
    ``(f) Advance Refunds and Credits.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (5) and (6), each 
        individual who was an eligible individual for such individual's 
        first taxable year beginning in 2020 shall be treated as having 
        made a payment against the tax imposed by chapter 1 for such 
        taxable year in an amount equal to the advance refund amount 
        for such taxable year.
            ``(2) Advance refund amount.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
                the advance refund amount is the amount that would have 
                been allowed as a credit under this section for such 
                taxable year if this section (other than subsection (e) 
                and this subsection) had applied to such taxable year.
                    ``(B) Treatment of deceased individuals.--For 
                purposes of determining the advance refund amount with 
                respect to such taxable year--
                            ``(i) any individual who was deceased 
                        before January 1, 2022, shall be treated for 
                        purposes of applying subsection (e)(2) in the 
                        same manner as if the valid identification 
                        number of such person was not included on the 
                        return of tax for such taxable year (except 
                        that subparagraph (E) thereof shall not apply),
                            ``(ii) notwithstanding clause (i), in the 
                        case of a joint return with respect to which 
                        only spouse is deceased before January 1, 2022, 
                        such deceased spouse was a member of the Armed 
                        Forces of the United States at any time during 
                        the taxable year, and the valid identification 
                        number of such deceased spouse is included on 
                        the return of tax for the taxable year, the 
                        valid identification number of 1 (and only 1) 
                        spouse shall be treated as included on the 
                        return of tax for the taxable year for purposes 
                        of applying subsection (e)(2)(B) with respect 
                        to such joint return, and
                            ``(iii) no amount shall be determined under 
                        subsection (d)(2) with respect to any dependent 
                        of the taxpayer if the taxpayer (both spouses 
                        in the case of a joint return) was deceased 
                        before January 1, 2022.
            ``(3) Timing and manner of payments.--The Secretary shall, 
        subject to the provisions of this title and consistent with 
        rules similar to the rules of subparagraphs (B) and (C) of 
        section 6428A(f)(3), refund or credit any overpayment 
        attributable to this subsection as rapidly as possible, 
        consistent with a rapid effort to make payments attributable to 
        such overpayments electronically if appropriate. No refund or 
        credit shall be made or allowed under this subsection after 
        December 31, 2022.
            ``(4) No interest.--No interest shall be allowed on any 
        overpayment attributable to this subsection.
            ``(5) Application to individuals who have filed a return of 
        tax for 2021.--
                    ``(A) Application to 2021 returns filed at time of 
                initial determination.--If, at the time of any 
                determination made pursuant to paragraph (3), the 
                individual referred to in paragraph (1) has filed a 
                return of tax for the individual's first taxable year 
                beginning in 2021, paragraph (1) shall be applied with 
                respect to such individual by substituting `2021' for 
                `2020'.
                    ``(B) Additional payment.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In the case of any 
                        individual who files, before the additional 
                        payment determination date, a return of tax for 
                        such individual's first taxable year beginning 
                        in 2021, the Secretary shall make a payment (in 
                        addition to any payment made under paragraph 
                        (1)) to such individual equal to the excess (if 
                        any) of--
                                    ``(I) the amount which would be 
                                determined under paragraph (1) (after 
                                the application of subparagraph (A)) by 
                                applying paragraph (1) as of the 
                                additional payment determination date, 
                                over
                                    ``(II) the amount of any payment 
                                made with respect to such individual 
                                under paragraph (1).
                            ``(ii) Additional payment determination 
                        date.--The term `additional payment 
                        determination date' means the earlier of--
                                    ``(I) the date which is 90 days 
                                after the 2021 calendar year filing 
                                deadline, or
                                    ``(II) September 1, 2022.
                            ``(iii) 2021 calendar year filing 
                        deadline.--The term `2021 calendar year filing 
                        deadline' means the date specified in section 
                        6072(a) with respect to returns for calendar 
                        year 2021. Such date shall be determined after 
                        taking into account any period disregarded 
                        under section 7508A if such disregard applies 
                        to substantially all returns for calendar year 
                        2021 to which section 6072(a) applies.
            ``(6) Application to certain individuals who have not filed 
        a return of tax for 2020 or 2021 at time of determination.--In 
        the case of any individual who, at the time of any 
        determination made pursuant to paragraph (3), has filed a tax 
        return for neither the year described in paragraph (1) nor for 
        the year described in paragraph (5)(A), the Secretary shall, 
        consistent with rules similar to the rules of section 
        6428A(f)(5)(H)(i), apply paragraph (1) on the basis of 
        information available to the Secretary and shall, on the basis 
        of such information, determine the advance refund amount with 
        respect to such individual.
            ``(7) Special rule related to time of filing return.--
        Solely for purposes of this subsection, a return of tax shall 
        not be treated as filed until such return has been processed by 
        the Internal Revenue Service.
            ``(8) Restriction on use of certain previously issued 
        prepaid debit cards.--Payments made by the Secretary to 
        individuals under this section shall not be in the form of an 
        increase in the balance of any previously issued prepaid debit 
        card if, as of the time of the issuance of such card, such card 
        was issued solely for purposes of making payments under section 
        6428, 6428A, or 6428B.
    ``(g) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations 
or other guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
purposes of this section, including--
            ``(1) regulations or other guidance providing taxpayers the 
        opportunity to provide the Secretary information sufficient to 
        allow the Secretary to make payments to such taxpayers under 
        subsection (f) (including the determination of the amount of 
        such payment) if such information is not otherwise available to 
        the Secretary, and
            ``(2) regulations or other guidance to ensure to the 
        maximum extent administratively practicable that, in 
        determining the amount of any credit under subsection (a) and 
        any credit or refund under subsection (f), an individual is not 
        taken into account more than once, including by different 
        taxpayers and including by reason of a change in joint return 
        status or dependent status between the taxable year for which 
        an advance refund amount is determined and the taxable year for 
        which a credit under subsection (a) is determined.
    ``(h) Outreach.--The Secretary shall carry out a robust and 
comprehensive outreach program to ensure that all taxpayers described 
in subsection (g)(1) learn of their eligibility for the advance refunds 
and credits under subsection (f); are advised of the opportunity to 
receive such advance refunds and credits as provided under subsection 
(g)(1); and are provided assistance in applying for such advance 
refunds and credits.''.
    (b) Treatment of Certain Possessions.--
            (1) Payments to possessions with mirror code tax systems.--
        The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay to each possession of 
        the United States which has a mirror code tax system amounts 
        equal to the loss (if any) to that possession by reason of the 
        amendments made by this section. Such amounts shall be 
        determined by the Secretary of the Treasury based on 
        information provided by the government of the respective 
        possession.
            (2) Payments to other possessions.--The Secretary of the 
        Treasury shall pay to each possession of the United States 
        which does not have a mirror code tax system amounts estimated 
        by the Secretary of the Treasury as being equal to the 
        aggregate benefits (if any) that would have been provided to 
        residents of such possession by reason of the amendments made 
        by this section if a mirror code tax system had been in effect 
        in such possession. The preceding sentence shall not apply 
        unless the respective possession has a plan, which has been 
        approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, under which such 
        possession will promptly distribute such payments to its 
        residents.
            (3) Inclusion of administrative expenses.--The Secretary of 
        the Treasury shall pay to each possession of the United States 
        to which the Secretary makes a payment under paragraph (1) or 
        (2) an amount equal to the lesser of--
                    (A) the increase (if any) of the administrative 
                expenses of such possession--
                            (i) in the case of a possession described 
                        in paragraph (1), by reason of the amendments 
                        made by this section, and
                            (ii) in the case of a possession described 
                        in paragraph (2), by reason of carrying out the 
                        plan described in such paragraph, or
                    (B) $500,000 ($10,000,000 in the case of Puerto 
                Rico).
        The amount described in subparagraph (A) shall be determined by 
        the Secretary of the Treasury based on information provided by 
        the government of the respective possession.
            (4) Coordination with credit allowed against united states 
        income taxes.--No credit shall be allowed against United States 
        income taxes under section 6428C of the Internal Revenue Code 
        of 1986 (as added by this section), nor shall any credit or 
        refund be made or allowed under subsection (f) of such section, 
        to any person--
                    (A) to whom a credit is allowed against taxes 
                imposed by the possession by reason of the amendments 
                made by this section, or
                    (B) who is eligible for a payment under a plan 
                described in paragraph (2).
            (5) Mirror code tax system.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term ``mirror code tax system'' means, with 
        respect to any possession of the United States, the income tax 
        system of such possession if the income tax liability of the 
        residents of such possession under such system is determined by 
        reference to the income tax laws of the United States as if 
        such possession were the United States.
            (6) Treatment of payments.--For purposes of section 1324 of 
        title 31, United States Code, the payments under this 
        subsection shall be treated in the same manner as a refund due 
        from a credit provision referred to in subsection (b)(2) of 
        such section.
    (c) Administrative Provisions.--
            (1) Definition of deficiency.--Section 6211(b)(4)(A) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``and 
        6428B'' and inserting ``6428B, and 6428C''.
            (2) Exception from reduction or offset.--Any refund payable 
        by reason of section 6428C(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986 (as added by this section), or any such refund payable by 
        reason of subsection (b) of this section, shall not be--
                    (A) subject to reduction or offset pursuant to 
                subsection (c), (d), (e), or (f) of section 6402 of the 
                Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or any similar authority 
                permitting offset, or
                    (B) reduced or offset by other assessed Federal 
                taxes that would otherwise be subject to levy or 
                collection.
            (3) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Paragraph (2) of section 1324(b) of title 31, 
                United States Code, is amended by inserting ``6428C,'' 
                after ``6428B,''.
                    (B) The table of sections for subchapter B of 
                chapter 65 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is 
                amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
                6428A the following new item:

``Sec. 6428C. 2022 gas prices rebate.''.
                                 
