
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7380 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7380

 To prohibit the transmission of remittances from the United States to 
                    Mexico, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 4, 2022

Mr. Gosar (for himself and Mr. Gohmert) introduced the following bill; 
which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition 
to the Committees on Education and Labor, and Energy and Commerce, for 
a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To prohibit the transmission of remittances from the United States to 
                    Mexico, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cartel Haven Sanction Act''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT THE TRANSMISSION OF REMITTANCES FROM THE 
              UNITED STATES TO MEXICO.

    (a) In General.--The President shall prohibit the transmission of 
remittances from the United States to Mexico.
    (b) Sunset.--This section shall terminate on the date on which a 
physical wall on the international border between the United States and 
Mexico has been constructed and is fully operational.

SEC. 3. AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE SANCTIONS AGAINST MEXICAN DRUG CARTEL AND 
              HUMAN TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATIONS AND USE THE PROCEEDS TO 
              PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO UNITED STATES CITIZENS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
President is authorized to take such actions as may be necessary to use 
the amounts described in subsection (b) to provide student loan 
forgiveness, job training, and addiction recovery treatment services to 
United States citizens.
    (b) Amounts Described.--The amounts described in this subsection 
are amounts derived from the liquidation or sales of assets of 
individuals described in subsection (c) if such assets are subject to 
United States jurisdiction and control by reason of the imposition of 
sanctions under any provision of United States law.
    (c) Individuals Described.--The individuals described in this 
subsection are individuals who are associated with illegal drug cartel 
or human trafficking organizations operating in Mexico.
                                 
