
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7572 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7572

   To amend the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 to 
establish university centers to encourage certain economic development, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 26, 2022

 Mr. Aguilar introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
   Committee on Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 to 
establish university centers to encourage certain economic development, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``University Centers for Growth, 
Development, Prosperity (GDP) Act''.

SEC. 2. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AGENCY UNIVERSITY CENTERS.

    (a) Establishment.--Title II of the Public Works and Economic 
Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3141 et seq.) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:

``SEC. 219. UNIVERSITY CENTERS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall make awards to institutions 
of higher learning for such institutions to serve as university 
centers.
    ``(b) Geographic Coverage.--The Secretary shall ensure that one 
university center is established in each State to provide services in 
such State.
    ``(c) Prioritization of Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities, Tribal Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-Serving 
Institutions, and Minority-Serving Institutions.--In establishing 
university centers under this section, the Secretary shall prioritize 
institutions of higher education that are eligible to receive funds 
under section 371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1067q(a)).
    ``(d) Duties.--The university centers established under this 
section, to the extent practicable, shall--
            ``(1) collaborate with other university centers;
            ``(2) collaborate with economic development districts, 
        trade adjustment assistance centers, Hollings Manufacturing 
        Extension Partnership Centers of the National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology, Business Centers and Rural Business 
        Centers of the Minority Business Development Agency, and other 
        relevant Federal economic development technical assistance and 
        service providers to provide expertise, applied research, and 
        technical assistance to develop, implement, and support 
        regional strategies that assist in job creation, high-skilled 
        regional talent pools, and business expansion in a region's 
        innovation cluster;
            ``(3) provide technical assistance, business development 
        services, and technology transfer services to businesses in the 
        service area of the university center;
            ``(4) establish partnerships with one or more 
        commercialization intermediaries that are public or nonprofit 
        technology transfer organizations eligible to receive a grant 
        under section 602(d)(1)(B) of the American Innovation and 
        Competitiveness Act (42 U.S.C. 1862s-9(d)(1)(B)); and
            ``(5) provide to communities and regions assistance 
        relating to data collection and analysis and other research 
        relating to economic conditions and vulnerabilities that can 
        inform economic development and adjustment strategies.
    ``(e) Funding.--The Secretary may provide to each university center 
under this section for each fiscal year an amount that is not less than 
$500,000 and not more than $1,000,000.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 3(12) of the Public Works and 
Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3122(12)) is amended by 
inserting ``a university center established under section 219 or'' 
after ``means''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3121 
note) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 218 
the following new item:

``Sec. 219. University centers.''.
                                 
