
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4476 Referred in Senate (RFS)]


117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4476


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 6, 2022

     Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland 
                   Security and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To establish the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Trade and 
 Economic Security Council and the position of Assistant Secretary for 
Trade and Economic Security within the Department of Homeland Security, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``DHS Trade and Economic Security 
Council Act of 2021''.

SEC. 2. DHS TRADE AND ECONOMIC SECURITY COUNCIL.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle H of title VIII of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 451 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:

``SEC. 890B. DHS TRADE AND ECONOMIC SECURITY COUNCIL.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the Department the 
DHS Trade and Economic Security Council (referred to in this section as 
the `Council').
    ``(b) Duties of the Council.--The Council shall provide to the 
Secretary advice and recommendations on matters of trade and economic 
security, including--
            ``(1) identifying concentrated risks for trade and economic 
        security;
            ``(2) setting priorities for securing the Nation's trade 
        and economic security;
            ``(3) coordinating Department-wide activity on trade and 
        economic security matters;
            ``(4) with respect to the President's continuity of the 
        economy plan under section 9603 of the William M. (Mac) 
        Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 
        2021;
            ``(5) proposing statutory and regulatory changes impacting 
        trade and economic security; and
            ``(6) any other matters the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    ``(c) Membership.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Council shall be composed of the 
        following members:
                    ``(A) The Assistant Secretary for Trade and 
                Economic Security of the Office of Strategy, Policy, 
                and Plans of the Department.
                    ``(B) An officer or an employee, selected by the 
                Secretary, from each of the following components and 
                offices of the Department:
                            ``(i) The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
                        Security Agency.
                            ``(ii) The Federal Emergency Management 
                        Agency.
                            ``(iii) The Office of Intelligence and 
                        Analysis.
                            ``(iv) The Science and Technology 
                        Directorate.
                            ``(v) United States Citizenship and 
                        Immigration Services.
                            ``(vi) The Coast Guard.
                            ``(vii) U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
                            ``(viii) U.S. Immigration and Customs 
                        Enforcement.
                            ``(ix) The Transportation Security 
                        Administration.
            ``(2) Chair and vice chair.--The Assistant Secretary for 
        Trade and Economic Security shall serve as Chair of the 
        Council. The Assistant Secretary for Trade and Economic 
        Security may designate a Council member as a Vice Chair.
    ``(d) Meetings.--The Council shall meet not less frequently than 
quarterly, as well as--
            ``(1) at the call of the Chair; or
            ``(2) at the direction of the Secretary.
    ``(e) Briefings.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section and every six months thereafter for four 
years, the Council shall brief the Committee on Homeland Security of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate on the actions and activities of the 
Council.
    ``(f) Definition.--In this section, the term `economic security' 
means the condition of having secure and resilient domestic production 
capacity combined with reliable access to the global resources 
necessary to maintain an acceptable standard of living and protect core 
national values.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 890A the following new item:

``Sec. 890B. DHS Trade and Economic Security Council.''.

SEC. 3. ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR TRADE AND ECONOMIC SECURITY.

    Section 709 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 349) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(g) Assistant Secretary for Trade and Economic Security.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is within the Office of Strategy, 
        Policy, and Plans an Assistant Secretary for Trade and Economic 
        Security.
            ``(2) Duties.--The Assistant Secretary for Trade and 
        Economic Security shall be responsible for policy formulation 
        regarding matters relating to economic security and trade, as 
        such matters relate to the mission and the operations of the 
        Department.
            ``(3) Additional responsibilities.--In addition to the 
        duties specified in paragraph (2), the Assistant Secretary for 
        Trade and Economic Security shall--
                    ``(A) oversee--
                            ``(i) the activities and enhancements of 
                        requirements for supply chain mapping not 
                        otherwise assigned by law or by the Secretary 
                        to another officer; and
                            ``(ii) assessments and reports to Congress 
                        related to critical economic security domains;
                    ``(B) serve as the executive for the Department on 
                the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United 
                States (CFIUS), the Committee for the Assessment of 
                Foreign Participation in the United States 
                Telecommunications Services Sector, and the Federal 
                Acquisition Security Council (in addition to any 
                position on such Council occupied by a representative 
                of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency 
                of the Department);
                    ``(C) coordinate with stakeholders in other Federal 
                departments and agencies and non-governmental entities 
                with trade and economic security interests, 
                authorities, and responsibilities; and
                    ``(D) perform such additional duties as the 
                Secretary or the Under Secretary of Strategy, Policy, 
                and Plans may prescribe.
            ``(4) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Critical economic security domain.--The term 
                `critical economic security domain' means any 
                infrastructure, industry, technology, or intellectual 
                property (or combination thereof) that is essential for 
                the economic security of the United States.
                    ``(B) Economic security.--The term `economic 
                security' has the meaning given such term in section 
                890B.''.

SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Homeland Security $3,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026 
to carry out section 890B and subsection (g) of section 709 of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added and inserted, respectively, by 
sections 2 and 3 of this Act.

            Passed the House of Representatives April 5, 2022.

            Attest:

                                             CHERYL L. JOHNSON,

                                                                 Clerk.
