
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7357 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7357

To amend title 5, United States Code, to require an executive agency to 
  submit information to any committee of the House of Representatives 
 upon the request of 7 of the members of the committee, and to submit 
information to any committee of the Senate upon the request of 5 of the 
  members of the committee, if the information relates to any matter 
    under the jurisdiction of the committee, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 1, 2022

Mr. Burgess (for himself and Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois) introduced 
 the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Oversight 
                               and Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title 5, United States Code, to require an executive agency to 
  submit information to any committee of the House of Representatives 
 upon the request of 7 of the members of the committee, and to submit 
information to any committee of the Senate upon the request of 5 of the 
  members of the committee, if the information relates to any matter 
    under the jurisdiction of the committee, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Response from Executive Agencies to 
Congress on Time Act'' or the ``REACT Act''.

SEC. 2. REQUIRING SUBMISSION OF INFORMATION TO COMMITTEES UPON REQUEST 
              OF MINIMUM NUMBER OF COMMITTEE MEMBERS.

    (a) Submission of Information.--Section 2954 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``agency, on request'' and all that 
follows through ``shall submit'' and inserting the following: ``agency, 
on request of any authorizing committee or permanent select committee 
of the House of Representatives or of any 7 members thereof, or on 
request of any authorizing or permanent select committee of the Senate 
or of any 5 members thereof, shall submit''.
    (b) Deadline for Submission; Enforcement.--Section 2954 of such 
title is amended--
            (1) by striking ``An Executive'' and inserting ``(a) 
        Submission of Information.--An Executive''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Deadline.--An Executive agency shall submit the information 
requested by a committee under subsection (a) not later than 45 days 
after the committee requests the information, or not later than such 
alternative deadline as the committee may specify in its request.
    ``(c) Enforcement.--A committee, or any 7 members thereof (in the 
case of a committee of the House of Representatives) or any 5 members 
thereof (in the case of a committee of the Senate), which is aggrieved 
by a violation of this section by an Executive agency may file an 
action in the appropriate district court of the United States for such 
injunctive and declaratory relief as may be appropriate.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to requests made on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
                                 
