
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 496 Engrossed in House (EH)]


  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 496

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To oppose violations of religious freedom in Ukraine by Russia and 
armed groups commanded or otherwise supported by or acting on behalf of 
                                Russia.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ukraine Religious Freedom Support 
Act''.

SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) to never recognize the illegal, attempted annexation of 
        Crimea by the Government of the Russia or the separation 
        through the use of military force or recognition of 
        independence of any portion of Ukrainian territory; and
            (2) to consider any alien who, while serving as an official 
        of the Government of Russia, was responsible for or directly 
        carried out particularly severe violations of religious freedom 
        in the sovereign territory of Ukraine that Russia illegally 
        occupies, controls, or recognizes as independent, including 
        through non-state armed groups and illegal entities it commands 
        or otherwise supports or which act on Russia's behalf, to have 
        committed particularly severe violations of religious freedom 
        for purposes of applying section 212(a)(2)(G) of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)(G)) with 
        respect to any such alien.

SEC. 3. DESIGNATION OF RUSSIA AS A COUNTRY OF PARTICULAR CONCERN FOR 
              RELIGIOUS FREEDOM.

    For purposes of making a determination of whether to designate 
Russia as a country of particular concern for religious freedom under 
section 402 of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 
U.S.C. 6442), the President shall consider any particularly severe 
violation of religious freedom in the territory of Ukraine that Russia 
illegally occupies, controls, or recognizes as independent, including 
through non-state armed groups and illegal entities it commands or 
otherwise supports or which act on Russia's behalf, during the period 
of time that is the basis for the determination and designation, to be 
a particularly severe violation of religious freedom that the 
Government of Russia has engaged in or tolerated.

SEC. 4. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

            Passed the House of Representatives April 27, 2022.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
117th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 496

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  To oppose violations of religious freedom in Ukraine by Russia and 
armed groups commanded or otherwise supported by or acting on behalf of 
                                Russia.
