
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6930 Engrossed in House (EH)]


  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6930

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To authorize the confiscation of assets subject to United States 
    jurisdiction of certain foreign persons, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Asset Seizure for Ukraine 
Reconstruction Act''.

SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress as follows:
            (1) The President should take all constitutional steps to 
        seize and confiscate assets under the jurisdiction of the 
        United States of foreign persons whose wealth is derived in 
        part through corruption linked to or political support for the 
        regime of Russian President Vladimir Putin and with respect to 
        which the President has imposed sanctions.
            (2) The President, by means of instructions, licenses, or 
        other regulations as may be promulgated and in a manner 
        consistent with due process of law, should confiscate any 
        property or accounts subject to the jurisdiction of the United 
        States, valued over $2,000,000, and belonging to Russian energy 
        companies or to foreign persons whose wealth is derived in part 
        through corruption linked to or political support for the 
        regime of Russian President Vladimir Putin and with respect to 
        which the President has imposed sanctions.
            (3) All rights, title, and interest in any property so 
        confiscated should vest, upon the terms directed by the 
        President, in such agency or person as the President may 
        designate from time to time, and upon such terms and conditions 
        as the President may prescribe.
            (4) Such interest or property should be held, used, 
        administered, liquidated, or sold, by such agency or person and 
        such designated agency or person should perform any and all 
        acts incident to the accomplishment or furtherance of these 
        purposes.
            (5) The President should use all liquidated funds for the 
        benefit of the people of Ukraine, including for the following:
                    (A) Post-conflict reconstruction in Ukraine.
                    (B) Humanitarian assistance.
                    (C) United States government assistance provided to 
                the security forces of the government of Ukraine.
                    (D) Provisions to support refugees and refugee 
                resettlement in neighboring countries and in the United 
                States.
                    (E) Technology items and services to ensure the 
                free flow of information to the Ukrainian people in 
                Ukraine, including items to counter internet censorship 
                by Russian authorities, to circumvent efforts to shut 
                down internet or communication services by Russian 
                authorities and bolster the cybersecurity capabilities 
                of Ukrainian Government or non-governmental 
                organizations.
                    (F) Humanitarian and development assistance for the 
                Russian people, including democracy and human rights 
                programming and monitoring.

SEC. 3. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.

    The President shall establish an interagency working group, which 
shall be headed by the Secretary of State, to determine the 
constitutional mechanisms through which the President can take steps to 
seize and confiscate assets under the jurisdiction of the United States 
of foreign persons whose wealth is derived in part through corruption 
linked to or political support for the regime of Russian President 
Vladimir Putin and with respect to which the President has imposed 
sanctions.

SEC. 4. REPORT ON STEPS AND AUTHORITIES.

    Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State, on behalf of the interagency working group, 
shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a 
report about the steps taken by the interagency working group to 
accomplish the steps laid out in section 2, a report that includes any 
recommendations to impose additional energy-related sanctions on the 
Government of Russia, and a report on any additional authorities the 
President needs to take such steps.

SEC. 5. EXPANSION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO MEMBERS OF THE RUSSIAN 
              PARLIAMENT.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the President shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
Senate a report, which may be submitted in classified form if 
necessary, that contains a justification for any determination of 
whether or not, in addition to the sanctions imposed pursuant to 
Executive Order 14024 (86 Fed. Reg. 73; relating to blocking property 
with respect to specified 11 harmful foreign activities of the 
Government of the Russian Federation), imposing sanctions on 328 
members of the Russian State Duma, a determination as to whether 
remaining members of the Duma and the Russian Federation Council, which 
includes officials who may be involved in corrupt and other 
sanctionable activities, who voted on February 22, 2022, to recognize 
the Donetsk People's Republic (DPR) and the Luhansk People's Republic 
(LPR), as well as the Russian Federation Council in its entirety, 
should be subject to sanctions under the such Executive Order.

SEC. 6. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

            Passed the House of Representatives April 27, 2022.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
117th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 6930

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

   To authorize the confiscation of assets subject to United States 
    jurisdiction of certain foreign persons, and for other purposes.
