
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6895 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6895

To establish the Commission on Sustaining Medicare and Social Security, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 2, 2022

Mr. Bilirakis introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
    and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish the Commission on Sustaining Medicare and Social Security, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Commission on Sustaining Medicare 
and Social Security Act of 2022''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is established in the legislative branch a commission to be 
known as the ``Commission on Sustaining Medicare and Social Security'' 
(in this Act referred to as the ``Commission'').

SEC. 3. DUTY OF THE COMMISSION.

    Not later than 1 year after the initial meeting of the Commission, 
the Commission shall submit to Congress a report on the Old-Age, 
Survivors, and Disability Insurance program under title II of the 
Social Security Act and the Medicare program under title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act, including--
            (1) the impact of using alternative indexes on 
        beneficiaries and the Trust Funds, including the Consumer Price 
        Index for the Elderly (CPI-E);
            (2) the impact of using alternative premium formulas for 
        the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security 
        Act on beneficiaries and the Federal Supplementary Medical 
        Insurance Trust Fund, including premium formulas that consider 
        financial hardships and socioeconomic status;
            (3) program reforms to increase the sustainability of the 
        Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance program under 
        title II of the Social Security Act and the Medicare program 
        under title XVIII of the Social Security Act; and
            (4) program reforms to prevent fraud, increase integrity, 
        and reduce improper payments.

SEC. 4. MEMBERS.

    (a) Number and Appointment.--The Commission shall be composed of 11 
members. Of the members of the Commission--
            (1) 3 shall be appointed by the President, including--
                    (A) the Commissioner of the Social Security 
                Administration or a designee of the Commissioner; and
                    (B) the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare 
                and Medicaid Services or a designee of the 
                Administrator;
            (2) 2 shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives, consisting of--
                    (A) 1 nongovernmental expert in the Old-Age, 
                Survivors, and Disability Insurance program under title 
                II of the Social Security Act; and
                    (B) 1 nongovernmental expert of the Medicare 
                program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act;
            (3) 2 shall be appointed by the minority leader of the 
        House of Representatives; consisting of--
                    (A) 1 nongovernmental expert in the Old-Age, 
                Survivors, and Disability Insurance program under title 
                II of the Social Security Act; and
                    (B) 1 nongovernmental expert of the Medicare 
                program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act;
            (4) 2 shall be appointed by the majority leader of the 
        Senate, consisting of--
                    (A) 1 nongovernmental expert in the Old-Age, 
                Survivors, and Disability Insurance program under title 
                II of the Social Security Act; and
                    (B) 1 nongovernmental expert of the Medicare 
                program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act; 
                and
            (5) 2 shall be appointed by the minority leader of the 
        Senate, consisting of--
                    (A) 1 nongovernmental expert in the Old-Age, 
                Survivors, and Disability Insurance program under title 
                II of the Social Security Act; and
                    (B) 1 nongovernmental expert of the Medicare 
                program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act.
    (b) Timing of Appointments.--Each of the appointments under 
subsection (a) shall be made not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Terms; Vacancies.--Each member shall be appointed for the life 
of the Commission, and a vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in 
the manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (d) Compensation.--
            (1) In general.--Members of the Commission shall serve 
        without pay.
            (2) Prohibition on compensation of federal employees.--
        Members of the Commission who are full-time officers or 
        employees of the United States may not receive additional pay, 
        allowances, or benefits by reason of their service on the 
        Commission.
            (3) Travel expenses.--Each member shall receive travel 
        expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in 
        accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of 
        chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.

SEC. 5. OPERATION AND POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.

    (a) Co-Chairs.--The Commission shall have two co-chairs who shall 
be elected from the members of the Commission during the first meeting 
of the Commission.
    (b) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet not later than 30 days 
after the members of the Commission have been appointed, and at such 
times thereafter as the co-chairs shall determine.
    (c) Rules of Procedure.--The co-chairs shall, with the approval of 
a majority of the members of the Commission, establish written rules of 
procedure for the Commission, which shall include a quorum requirement 
to conduct the business of the Commission.
    (d) Hearings.--The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out 
this Act, hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take 
testimony, and receive evidence as the Commission considers 
appropriate.
    (e) Obtaining Official Data.--The Commission may secure directly 
from any department or agency of the United States, including the 
Congressional Budget Office and the Government Accountability Office, 
any information or technical assistance necessary to enable the 
Commission to carry out this Act. Upon request of the co-chairs of the 
Commission, the head of that department or agency shall furnish that 
information or technical assistance to the Commission.
    (f) Contract Authority.--To the extent or in the amounts provided 
in advance in appropriation Acts, the Commission may contract with and 
compensate government and private agencies or persons for any purpose 
necessary to enable the Commission to carry out this Act.
    (g) Mails.--The Commission may use the United States mails in the 
same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and 
agencies of the United States.

SEC. 6. PERSONNEL.

    (a) Director.--The Commission shall have a Director who shall be 
appointed by the Commission. The Director shall be paid at the rate of 
basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of 
title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Staff.--The Director may appoint and fix the pay of additional 
staff as the Director considers appropriate.
    (c) Experts and Consultants.--The Commission may procure temporary 
and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United 
States Code, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the maximum 
rate of basic pay for GS-15 of the General Schedule.
    (d) Staff of Federal Agencies.--Upon request of the Commission, the 
head of any Federal department or agency may detail, without 
reimbursement, any of the personnel of that department or agency to the 
Commission to assist the Commission in carrying out its duties under 
this Act.
    (e) Administrative Support Services.--Upon the request of the 
Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall provide to the 
Commission, on a reimbursable basis, the administrative support 
services necessary for the Commission to carry out its responsibilities 
under this Act.

SEC. 7. TERMINATION.

    The Commission shall terminate not later than 60 days after the 
submission of the report required by section 3.

SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 to carry out this 
Act.
                                 
