
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7163 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7163

 To impose sanctions on government officials of Russia and Belarus who 
  directly enabled Russia's invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 18, 2022

 Mr. Luetkemeyer introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on 
the Judiciary, Financial Services, and Agriculture, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To impose sanctions on government officials of Russia and Belarus who 
  directly enabled Russia's invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sanctioning Putin's Enablers Act''.

SEC. 2. IMPOSING SANCTIONS ON GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS OF RUSSIA AND 
              BELARUS WHO DIRECTLY ENABLED RUSSIA'S INVASION OF UKRAINE 
              ON FEBRUARY 24, 2022.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 5 days after the date of the 
enactment of the Act, the President shall impose the sanctions 
described in subsection (b) with respect to any individual serving in 
any of the following positions:
            (1) Any member of the Russian Federation Council which took 
        part of the February 22, 2022, vote to authorize Russian 
        military force outside the boundaries of Russia which led to 
        the invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022.
            (2) Any member of the Russian State Duma that voted in 
        favor to authorize Russian military force outside the 
        boundaries of Russia which led to the invasion of Ukraine on 
        February 24, 2022.
            (3) Any member of the Russian Security Council who spoke in 
        favor of recognizing Donetsk and Luhansk, also known 
        collectively as Donbas, as independent of Ukraine.
            (4) Any member of the Central Election Commission of 
        Belarus that orchestrated the February 27, 2022, constitutional 
        referendum that permitted Belarus to host the nuclear weapons 
        of Russia permanently in Belarus.
    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions in this subsection are the 
following:
            (1) Blocking of property.--The President shall exercise all 
        of the powers granted to the President under the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the 
        extent necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in 
        property and interests in property of an individual described 
        in subsection (a) if such property and interests in property 
        are in the United States, come within the United States, or are 
        or come within the possession or control of a United States 
        person.
            (2) Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole.--
                    (A) Visas, admission, or parole.--An alien 
                described in subsection (a) is--
                            (i) inadmissible to the United States;
                            (ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other 
                        documentation to enter the United States; and
                            (iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted 
                        or paroled into the United States or to receive 
                        any other benefit under the Immigration and 
                        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
                    (B) Current visas revoked.--
                            (i) In general.--An alien described in 
                        subsection (a) is subject to revocation of any 
                        visa or other entry documentation, regardless 
                        of when the visa or other entry documentation 
                        is or was issued.
                            (ii) Immediate effect.--A revocation under 
                        clause (i) shall--
                                    (I) take effect immediately; and
                                    (II) automatically cancel any other 
                                valid visa or entry documentation that 
                                is in the alien's possession.

SEC. 3. PRESIDENTIAL AUTHORITIES WITH RESPECT TO THE CONFLICT IN 
              UKRAINE.

    (a) In General.--The President shall, by any means of instructions, 
licenses, or other regulations as may be promulgated by the President, 
confiscate any property or accounts subject to the jurisdiction of the 
United States of any person described in section 2(a).
    (b) Use of Liquidated Funds.--Any funds derived from liquidation or 
sales pursuant to subsection (a) shall be used solely for the benefit 
of the people of Ukraine, for the following purposes:
            (1) Post-conflict reconstruction in Ukraine.
            (2) Humanitarian assistance.
            (3) Weapons for the uniformed military forces of the 
        elected Government of Ukraine.
            (4) Provisions to support refugees and refugee resettlement 
        in neighboring countries and in the United States.

SEC. 4. FINANCIAL INSTITUTION REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--A United States financial institution shall take 
all actions necessary and available to cause any entity or person owned 
or controlled by the institution to comply with any of the provisions 
of law described in subsection (b) to the same extent as required of a 
United States financial institution.
    (b) Provisions of Law Described.--The provisions of law described 
in this subsection are any prohibition or limitation described in 
statute, regulation, or order applicable to a United States financial 
institution concerning the Russian Federation or the Republic of 
Belarus, involving--
            (1) the conduct of transactions;
            (2) the acceptance of deposits;
            (3) the making, granting, transferring, holding, or 
        brokering of loans or credits;
            (4) the purchasing or selling of foreign exchange, 
        securities, commodity futures, or options;
            (5) the procuring of purchasers and sellers described under 
        paragraph (4) as principal or agent; or
            (6) any other good or service provided by a United States 
        financial institution.
    (c) Penalties.--A United States financial institution that violates 
subsection (a) shall be subject to the penalties described in the 
applicable statute, regulation, or order applicable to a United States 
financial institution.
    (d) United States Financial Institution Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``United States financial institution'' has the meaning given 
the term ``U.S. financial institution'' in section 561.309 of title 31, 
Code of Federal Regulations.
                                 
