
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6089 Engrossed in House (EH)]


  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6089

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To clarify that section 107 of the Countering America's Adversaries 
Through Sanctions Act applies sanctions with respect to unmanned combat 
aerial vehicles following a 2019 change by the United Nations providing 
additional clarity to the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Stop Iranian Drones Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) A July 15, 2013, United Nations General Assembly Report 
        on the continuing operation of the United Nations Register of 
        Conventional Arms and its further development (document A/68/
        140) states in paragraph 45, ``The Group noted the discussion 
        of the 2006 Group that category IV already covered armed 
        unmanned aerial vehicles and of the 2009 Group on a proposal to 
        include a new category for such vehicles. The Group reviewed 
        proposals for providing greater clarity to category IV.''.
            (2) Section 107 of the Countering America's Adversaries 
        Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9406), enacted August 2, 2017, 
        requires the President to impose sanctions on any person that 
        the President determines ``knowingly engages in any activity 
        that materially contributes to the supply, sale, or transfer 
        directly or indirectly to or from Iran, or for the use in or 
        benefit of Iran, of any battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, 
        large caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack 
        helicopters, warships, missiles or missile systems, as defined 
        for the purpose of the United Nations Register of Conventional 
        Arms, or related materiel, including spare parts''.
            (3) In 2019, the United Nations formally changed the 
        heading of category IV of the United Nations Register of 
        Conventional Arms to ``combat aircraft and unmanned combat 
        aerial vehicles''.

SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It shall be the policy of the United States to prevent Iran and 
Iranian-aligned terrorist and militia groups from acquiring unmanned 
aerial vehicles, including commercially available component parts, that 
can be used in attacks against United States persons and partner 
nations.

SEC. 4. AMENDMENT TO COUNTERING AMERICA'S ADVERSARIES THROUGH SANCTIONS 
              ACT RELATING TO SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO IRAN.

    (a) In General.--Section 107 of the Countering America's 
Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9406) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``enforcement of 
        arms embargos'' and inserting ``sanctions with respect to major 
        conventional arms''; and
            (2) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ``or unmanned combat 
        aerial vehicles'' after ``combat aircraft''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Countering 
America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 107 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 107. Sanctions with respect to major conventional arms.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and apply with respect 
to any person that knowingly engages in any activity that materially 
contributes to the supply, sale, or transfer directly or indirectly to 
or from Iran, or for the use in or benefit of Iran, of any unmanned 
combat aerial vehicles, as defined for the purpose of the United 
Nations Register of Conventional Arms, before, on, or after such date 
of enactment.

SEC. 5. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

            Passed the House of Representatives April 27, 2022.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
117th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 6089

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  To clarify that section 107 of the Countering America's Adversaries 
Through Sanctions Act applies sanctions with respect to unmanned combat 
aerial vehicles following a 2019 change by the United Nations providing 
additional clarity to the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms.
