
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7601 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7601

 To require notice of certain subpoenas and warrants issued to a third 
 party pursuant to an investigation of the Department of Justice, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 27, 2022

   Mr. Lieu introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require notice of certain subpoenas and warrants issued to a third 
 party pursuant to an investigation of the Department of Justice, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Inspector General Notification 
Act''.

SEC. 2. NOTICE OF CERTAIN SUBPOENAS AND WARRANTS.

    (a) In General.--In any case in which the metadata or contents of 
any communication of a covered party is subject to a subpoena, court 
order, or warrant issued pursuant to an investigation conducted by the 
Department of Justice, the Attorney General shall provide to the 
Inspector General for the Department of Justice a notice of such 
subpoena, order, or warrant not later than 7 days after the subpoena or 
warrant is issued.
    (b) Review.--The Inspector General for the Department of Justice 
shall review each subpoena, order, or warrant with respect to which the 
Inspector General receives a notice under subsection (a) to determine 
whether such subpoena, order, or warrant was sought in bad faith.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, and each year thereafter, the Inspector General for the 
Department of Justice shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary 
and the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on 
the number of times a subpoena, order, or warrant described in 
subsection (a) was issued.
    (d) Definitions.--In this Act:
            (1) Covered party.--The term ``covered party'' means--
                    (A) any member or employee of the legislative 
                branch; or
                    (B) any member or employee of the judicial branch, 
                including a judge, clerk, or member of judicial staff.
            (2) Legislative branch.--The term ``legislative branch'' 
        includes--
                    (A) The House of Representatives.
                    (B) The Senate.
                    (C) The Congressional Budget Office.
                    (D) The Government Accountability Office.
                    (E) The United States Capitol Police.
            (3) Metadata.--The term ``metadata'' means non-content 
        information relating to communications.
                                 
