
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7169 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7169

  To withhold all assessed and voluntary contributions to the United 
Nations until such time as the membership of the Russian Federation on 
 the United Nations Security Council is terminated and the Republic of 
 Poland is afforded full rights, privileges, and responsibilities as a 
Permanent Member of the United Nations Security Council, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 18, 2022

  Mr. Perry introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Foreign Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To withhold all assessed and voluntary contributions to the United 
Nations until such time as the membership of the Russian Federation on 
 the United Nations Security Council is terminated and the Republic of 
 Poland is afforded full rights, privileges, and responsibilities as a 
Permanent Member of the United Nations Security Council, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Poland Over Russia Act''.

SEC. 2. PERMANENT MEMBERSHIP OF POLAND ON THE UNITED NATIONS SECURITY 
              COUNCIL.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
effective on the date of the enactment of this Act, the United States 
shall withhold all assessed and voluntary contributions to the United 
Nations until such time as the membership of the Russian Federation on 
the United Nations Security Council is terminated and the Republic of 
Poland is afforded full rights, privileges, and responsibilities as a 
Permanent Member of the United Nations Security Council.
    (b) Presidential Action.--The President is authorized to take any 
appropriate action to carry out subsection (a).
    (c) Actions at the United Nations.--The President shall direct the 
United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations to use the 
voice, vote, and influence of the United States at the United Nations 
to encourage Member States of the United Nations to take actions 
identical or similar to the action described in subsection (a).
    (d) No Effect on the United States in the United Nations.--United 
States membership in the United Nations shall not be affected in any 
way by any action under this section.
                                 
