
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6387 Engrossed in House (EH)]


  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6387

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish a school 
         security coordinating council, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``School and Daycare Protection Act''.

SEC. 2. SCHOOL SECURITY COORDINATING COUNCIL.

    (a) In General.--Title VII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
U.S.C. 341 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:

``SEC. 714. SCHOOL SECURITY COORDINATING COUNCIL.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the Department a 
coordinating council to ensure that, to the maximum extent practicable, 
activities, plans, and policies to enhance the security of early 
childhood education programs, elementary schools, high schools, and 
secondary schools against acts of terrorism and other homeland security 
threats are coordinated.
    ``(b) Composition.--The members of the council established pursuant 
to subsection (a) shall include the following:
            ``(1) The Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans.
            ``(2) The Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
        Security.
            ``(3) The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
        Agency.
            ``(4) The Director of the Secret Service.
            ``(5) The Executive Director of the Office of Academic 
        Engagement.
            ``(6) The Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs.
            ``(7) Any other official of the Department the Secretary 
        determines appropriate.
    ``(c) Leadership.--The Secretary shall designate a member of the 
council to serve as chair of the council.
    ``(d) Resources.--The Secretary shall participate in Federal 
efforts to maintain and publicize a clearinghouse of resources 
available to early childhood education programs, elementary schools, 
high schools, and secondary schools to enhance security against acts of 
terrorism and other homeland security threats.
    ``(e) Reports.--Not later than January 30, 2023, and annually 
thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report regarding the 
following:
            ``(1) The Department's activities, plans, and policies 
        aimed at enhancing the security of early childhood education 
        programs, elementary schools, high schools, and secondary 
        schools against acts of terrorism and other homeland security 
        threats.
            ``(2) With respect to the immediately preceding year, 
        information on the following:
                    ``(A) The council's activities during such year.
                    ``(B) The Department's contributions to Federal 
                efforts to maintain and publicize the clearinghouse of 
                resources referred to in subsection (d) during such 
                year.
            ``(3) Any metrics regarding the efficacy of such activities 
        and contributions, and any engagement with stakeholders outside 
        of the Federal Government.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section, the terms `early childhood 
education program', `elementary school', `high school', and `secondary 
school' have the meanings given such terms in section 8101 of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 710 the following new item:

``Sec. 714. School security coordinating council.''.

            Passed the House of Representatives April 5, 2022.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
117th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 6387

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

   To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish a school 
         security coordinating council, and for other purposes.
