
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7235 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7235

  To amend title XIX of the Public Health Service Act to make certain 
improvements with respect to block grants for substance use prevention, 
       treatment, and recovery services, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 28, 2022

   Mr. Tonko (for himself, Mr. Guthrie, Ms. Wild, and Mr. McKinley) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                          Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title XIX of the Public Health Service Act to make certain 
improvements with respect to block grants for substance use prevention, 
       treatment, and recovery services, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Substance Use Prevention, Treatment, 
and Recovery Services Block Grant Act of 2022''.

SEC. 2. ELIMINATING STIGMATIZING LANGUAGE RELATING TO SUBSTANCE USE.

    (a) Block Grants for Prevention and Treatment of Substance Use.--
Part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x et 
seq.) is amended--
            (1) in the part heading, by striking ``substance abuse'' 
        and inserting ``substance use'';
            (2) in subpart II, by amending the subpart heading to read 
        as follows: ``Block Grants for Substance Use Prevention, 
        Treatment, and Recovery Services'';
            (3) in section 1922(a) (42 U.S.C. 300x-22(a))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``substance abuse'' and 
                inserting ``substance use disorders''; and
                    (B) by striking ``such abuse'' each place it 
                appears in paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting ``such 
                use'';
            (4) in section 1923 (42 U.S.C. 300x-23)--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking ``substance 
                abuse'' and inserting ``substance use''; and
                    (B) by striking ``drug abuse'' each place it 
                appears in subsections (a) and (b) and inserting 
                ``substance use disorders'';
            (5) in section 1925(a)(1) (42 U.S.C. 300x-25(a)(1)), by 
        striking ``alcohol or drug abuse'' and inserting ``alcohol or 
        other substance use disorders'';
            (6) in section 1926(b)(2)(B) (42 U.S.C. 300x-26(b)(2)(B)), 
        by striking ``substance abuse'';
            (7) in section 1931(b)(2) (42 U.S.C. 300x-31(b)(2)), by 
        striking ``substance abuse'' and inserting ``substance use 
        disorders'';
            (8) in section 1933(d)(1) (42 U.S.C. 300x-33(d)), in the 
        matter following subparagraph (B), by striking ``abuse of 
        alcohol and other drugs'' and inserting ``use of substances'';
            (9) by amending paragraph (4) of section 1934 (42 U.S.C. 
        300x-34) to read as follows:
            ``(4) The term `substance use disorder' means the recurrent 
        use of alcohol or other drugs that causes clinically 
        significant impairment.'';
            (10) in section 1935 (42 U.S.C. 300x-35)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``substance 
                abuse'' and inserting ``substance use disorders''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``substance 
                abuse'' each place it appears and inserting ``substance 
                use disorders'';
            (11) in section 1949 (42 U.S.C. 300x-59), by striking 
        ``substance abuse'' each place it appears in subsections (a) 
        and (d) and inserting ``substance use disorders'';
            (12) in section 1954(b)(4) (42 U.S.C. 300x-64(b)(4))--
                    (A) by striking ``substance abuse'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``substance use disorders''; and
                    (B) by striking ``such abuse'' and inserting ``such 
                disorders'';
            (13) in section 1955 (42 U.S.C. 300x-65), by striking 
        ``substance abuse'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``substance use disorder''; and
            (14) in section 1956 (42 U.S.C. 300x-66), by striking 
        ``substance abuse'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``substance use disorders''.
    (b) Certain Programs Regarding Mental Health and Substance Abuse.--
Part C of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300y et 
seq.) is amended--
            (1) in the part heading, by striking ``substance abuse'' 
        and inserting ``substance use'';
            (2) in section 1971 (42 U.S.C. 300y), by striking 
        ``substance abuse'' each place it appears in subsections (a), 
        (b), and (f) and inserting ``substance use''; and
            (3) in section 1976 (42 U.S.C. 300y-11), by striking 
        ``intravenous abuse'' and inserting ``intravenous use''.

SEC. 3. AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.

    Section 1921(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-
21(b)) is amended by striking ``prevent and treat substance use 
disorders'' and inserting ``prevent, treat, and provide recovery 
support services for substance use disorders''.

SEC. 4. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO CERTAIN INFECTIOUS DISEASES AND HUMAN 
              IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUS.

    Section 1924 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-24) 
is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``tuberculosis and 
        human immunodeficiency virus'' and inserting ``tuberculosis, 
        viral hepatitis, and human immunodeficiency virus'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
        (d) and (e), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Viral Hepatitis.--
            ``(1) In general.--A funding agreement for a grant under 
        section 1921 is that the State involved will require that any 
        entity receiving amounts from the grant for operating a program 
        of treatment for substance use disorders--
                    ``(A) will, directly or through arrangements with 
                other public or nonprofit private entities, routinely 
                make available viral hepatitis services to each 
                individual receiving treatment for such disorders; and
                    ``(B) in the case of an individual in need of such 
                treatment who is denied admission to the program on the 
                basis of the lack of the capacity of the program to 
                admit the individual, will refer the individual to 
                another provider of viral hepatitis services.
            ``(2) Viral hepatitis services.--For purposes of paragraph 
        (1), the term `viral hepatitis services', with respect to an 
        individual, means--
                    ``(A) screening the individual for viral hepatitis; 
                and
                    ``(B) referring the individual to a provider 
                specializing in viral hepatitis treatment.''.

SEC. 5. STATE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 1932(b)(1)(A) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating clauses (vi) through (ix) as clauses 
        (vii) through (x), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after clause (v) the following:
                            ``(vi) provides a description of--
                                    ``(I) the State's comprehensive 
                                statewide recovery support services 
                                activities, including the number of 
                                individuals being served, target 
                                populations, and priority needs; and
                                    ``(II) the amount of funds received 
                                under this subpart expended on recovery 
                                support services;''.

SEC. 6. UPDATING CERTAIN LANGUAGE RELATING TO TRIBES.

    Section 1933(d) of the Public Health Service Act (300x-33(d)) is 
amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Tribes and 
        Tribal Organizations'' and inserting ``Tribes and Tribal 
        Organizations'';
            (2) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``of an Indian tribe or 
                        tribal organization'' and inserting ``of an 
                        Indian Tribe or Tribal organization''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``such tribe'' and 
                        inserting ``such Tribe'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by striking ``tribe or tribal 
                        organization'' and inserting ``Tribe or Tribal 
                        organization''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Secretary under this'' 
                        and inserting ``Secretary under this subpart''; 
                        and
                    (C) in the matter following subparagraph (B), by 
                striking ``tribe or tribal organization'' and inserting 
                ``Tribe or Tribal organization'';
            (3) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Indian tribe or tribal organization as grantee.--The 
        amount reserved by the Secretary on the basis of a 
        determination under this subsection shall be granted to the 
        Indian Tribe or Tribal organization serving the individuals for 
        whom such a determination has been made.'';
            (4) in paragraph (3), by striking ``tribe or tribal 
        organization'' and inserting ``Tribe or Tribal organization''; 
        and
            (5) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) in the paragraph heading, by striking 
                ``Definition'' and inserting ``Definitions''; and
                    (B) by striking ``The terms'' and all that follows 
                through ``given such terms'' and inserting the 
                following: ``The terms `Indian Tribe' and `Tribal 
                organization' have the meanings given the terms `Indian 
                tribe' and `tribal organization'''.

SEC. 7. BLOCK GRANTS FOR SUBSTANCE USE PREVENTION, TREATMENT, AND 
              RECOVERY SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1935(a) of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 300x-35(a)), as amended by section 2, is further amended by 
striking ``appropriated'' and all that follows through ``2022..'' and 
inserting the following: ``appropriated $1,908,079,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2023 through 2027.''.
    (b) Technical Corrections.--Section 1935(b)(1)(B) of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-35(b)(1)(B)) is amended by striking 
``the collection of data in this paragraph is''.

SEC. 8. STUDY ON ASSESSMENT FOR USE IN DISTRIBUTION OF LIMITED STATE 
              RESOURCES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting 
through the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use (in 
this section referred to as the ``Secretary''), shall, in consultation 
with States and other local entities providing prevention, treatment, 
or recovery support services related to substance use, conduct a study 
to develop a model needs assessment process for States to consider to 
help determine how best to allocate block grant funding received under 
subpart II of part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 300x-21) to provide services to substance use disorder 
prevention, treatment, and recovery support. The study must include 
cost estimates with each model needs assessment process.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor and Pensions of the Senate a report on the results of 
the study conducted under paragraph (1).
                                 
