
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3113 Received in Senate (RDS)]


117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3113


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 16, 2022

                                Received

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To require the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, 
and the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works to digitize and 
  make publicly available geographic information system mapping data 
   relating to public access to Federal land and waters for outdoor 
                  recreation, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Modernizing Access to Our Public 
Land Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means any land 
        managed by a Federal land management agency.
            (2) Federal land management agency.--The term ``Federal 
        land management agency'' means--
                    (A) the Bureau of Reclamation;
                    (B) the National Park Service;
                    (C) the Bureau of Land Management;
                    (D) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
                    (E) the Forest Service; and
                    (F) the Corps of Engineers.
            (3) Road or trail.--The term ``road or trail'' means a road 
        or trail designated by 1 or more of the Secretaries for public 
        use.
            (4) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through 
                the Chief of the Forest Service;
                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior; and
                    (C) the Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
                Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works.

SEC. 3. INTERAGENCY DATA STANDARDIZATION.

    Not later than 30 months after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretaries shall jointly develop and adopt interagency standards 
to ensure compatibility and interoperability among applicable Federal 
databases with respect to the collection and dissemination of data--
            (1) relating to public outdoor recreational use on Federal 
        land; and
            (2) used to depict locations at which recreation uses are 
        available to the public.

SEC. 4. DIGITIZATION AND PUBLICATION OF EASEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 4 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, each of the Secretaries, to the maximum extent 
practicable, shall digitize and publish on the applicable agency 
website geographic information system mapping data that specifies, with 
respect to the relevant Secretary, all Federal interests in private 
land, including easements (other than flowage easements), reservations, 
and rights-of-way--
            (1) to which the Federal Government does not have a fee 
        title interest; and
            (2) that may be used to provide public recreational access 
        to the Federal land.
    (b) Public Comment.--The Secretaries shall develop a process to 
allow members of the public to submit questions or comments regarding 
the information described in subsection (a).

SEC. 5. DATA CONSOLIDATION AND PUBLICATION OF ROUTE AND AREA DATA FOR 
              PUBLIC RECREATIONAL USE.

    (a) In General.--Beginning not later than 5 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, each of the Secretaries, to the maximum extent 
practicable, shall make publicly available on the website of the 
Department of the Interior, the Forest Service, and the Corps of 
Engineers, as applicable, geographic information system data with 
respect to the following:
            (1) Status information with respect to whether roads and 
        trails on the Federal land are open or closed.
            (2) The dates on which roads and trails on the Federal land 
        are seasonally closed.
            (3) The classes of vehicles and types of recreational uses 
        that are allowed on each segment of roads and trails on the 
        Federal land, including the permissibility of--
                    (A) off-highway vehicles;
                    (B) motorcycles;
                    (C) nonmotorized bicycles;
                    (D) electric bicycles;
                    (E) passenger vehicles;
                    (F) nonmechanized transportation; and
                    (G) over-snow vehicles.
            (4) The boundaries of areas where hunting or recreational 
        shooting (including archery, firearm discharge, and target 
        shooting) is permanently restricted or prohibited on the 
        Federal land.
    (b) Updates.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretaries, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, shall update the data described in subsection (a) 
        not less frequently than twice per year.
            (2) Public comment.--The Secretaries shall develop a 
        process to allow members of the public to submit questions or 
        comments regarding the information described in subsection (a).
    (c) Effect.--Geographic information system data made publicly 
available under subsection (a) shall not disclose information regarding 
the nature, location, character, or ownership of historic, 
paleontological, or archaeological resources, consistent with 
applicable law.

SEC. 6. COOPERATION AND COORDINATION.

    (a) Third-party Providers.--The Secretaries may enter into an 
agreement with a third party to carry out any provision of this Act.
    (b) US Geological Survey.--The Secretaries may work with the 
Director of the United States Geological Survey to collect, aggregate, 
digitize, standardize, or publish data on behalf of the Secretary of 
the Interior to meet the requirements of this Act.

SEC. 7. REPORTS.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act and 
annually thereafter through March 30, 2031, the Secretaries shall 
submit a report on the progress made by the Secretaries with respect to 
meeting the requirements of this Act to--
            (1) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate;
            (2) the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the 
        Senate;
            (3) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (4) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives.

SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated--
            (1) to the Secretary of the Interior to carry out this 
        Act--
                    (A) $2,500,000 for fiscal year 2022; and
                    (B) $5,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 
                through 2025;
            (2) to the Secretary of Agriculture to carry out this Act--
                    (A) $2,500,000 for fiscal year 2022; and
                    (B) $5,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 
                through 2025; and
            (3) to the Secretary of the Army to carry out this Act--
                    (A) $1,500,000 for fiscal year 2022; and
                    (B) $2,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 
                through 2025.

            Passed the House of Representatives March 15, 2022.

            Attest:

                                             CHERYL L. JOHNSON,

                                                                 Clerk.
