
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7399 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7399

 To amend the Land Between the Lakes Protection Act of 1998 to clarify 
 the administration of the Land Between the Lakes National Recreation 
                     Area, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 5, 2022

   Mr. Comer (for himself and Mr. Green of Tennessee) introduced the 
following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Agriculture, and 
 in addition to the Committee on Natural Resources, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Land Between the Lakes Protection Act of 1998 to clarify 
 the administration of the Land Between the Lakes National Recreation 
                     Area, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Land Between the Lakes Recreation 
and Heritage Act'' or the ``LBL Recreation and Heritage Act''.

SEC. 2. ADMINISTRATION OF THE LAND BETWEEN THE LAKES NATIONAL 
              RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 502 of the Land Between the Lakes 
Protection Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 460lll) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5)(B)--
                    (A) in clause (viii), by striking ``and'' after the 
                semicolon at the end;
                    (B) in clause (ix), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(x) division A of subtitle III of title 
                        54, United States Code (formerly known as the 
                        `National Historic Preservation Act').'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (11) through (15) as 
        paragraphs (12) through (16), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (10) the following:
            ``(11) Qualified resident or relative.--The term `qualified 
        resident or relative' means--
                    ``(A) a former resident of the area within the 
                Recreation Area or the spouse of a former resident of 
                that area; or
                    ``(B) a widow, widower, or lineal descendant of an 
                individual buried in a cemetery located in the 
                Recreation Area.''.
    (b) Establishment.--Section 511(b) of the Land Between the Lakes 
Protection Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 460lll-11(b)) is amended by striking 
paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Status of unit.--The Secretary shall administer the 
        Recreation Area as a separate unit of the National Forest 
        System.''.
    (c) Advisory Board.--Section 522 of the Land Between the Lakes 
Protection Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 460lll-22) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``17'' and inserting ``13'';
                    (B) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5);
                    (C) in paragraph (3), by adding ``and'' after the 
                semicolon at the end; and
                    (D) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph 
                (4);
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(2) Nonconsecutive terms.--Members of the Advisory Board 
        may serve multiple terms, but may not serve consecutive 
        terms.'';
            (3) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``may advise'' and inserting ``shall advise 
                and partner with'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' after the 
                semicolon at the end;
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) developing an annual work plan for recreation and 
        environment education areas in the Recreation Area, including 
        the heritage program, with the nonappropriated amounts in the 
        Land Between the Lakes Management Fund;
            ``(4) developing an annual forest management and harvest 
        plan for the Recreation Area; and
            ``(5) the balance and status of the Land Between the Lakes 
        Management Fund.''; and
            (4) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``biannually'' 
                and inserting ``twice each year'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``, on a public 
                website of the Department of Agriculture,'' before 
                ``and by''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Minutes.--The chairperson of the Advisory Board shall 
        publish the minutes of each meeting of the Advisory Board on a 
        public website of the Department of Agriculture.''.
    (d) Fees.--Section 523(a) of the Land Between the Lakes Protection 
Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 460lll-23(a)) is amended by striking ``may 
charge reasonable fees'' and inserting ``shall charge reasonable fees, 
as determined by the Advisory Board,''.
    (e) Disposition of Receipts.--Section 524 of the Land Between the 
Lakes Protection Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 460lll-24) is amended by 
striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Use.--Amounts in the Land Between the Lakes Management Fund--
            ``(1) shall be available to the Secretary until expended, 
        without further appropriation, to perform new work or deferred 
        maintenance in the Recreation Area; and
            ``(2) shall not be available for the payment of salaries or 
        other expenses.''.
    (f) Cooperative Authorities and Gifts.--Section 526 of the Land 
Between the Lakes Protection Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 460lll-26) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Memoranda of Understanding.--The Secretary is encouraged, for 
purposes of carrying out this Act--
            ``(1) to enter into memoranda of understanding with State 
        or local government entities, including law enforcement, as 
        appropriate, to clarify jurisdictional matters, such as road 
        management, policing, and other functions that are typically 
        performed by the entity on non-Federal land; and
            ``(2) to make available on a public website of the 
        Department of Agriculture any memoranda of understanding 
        entered into under paragraph (1).''.
    (g) Cemeteries.--Section 528 of the Land Between the Lakes 
Protection Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 460lll-28) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Land for Plots for Qualified Residents or Relatives.--
            ``(1) Requests.--The Secretary, on request from a qualified 
        resident or relative or a cemetery association, shall grant 
        additional land for the expansion of existing cemeteries within 
        the Recreation Area to allow for the burial of qualified 
        residents or relatives.
            ``(2) Expenses.--Any expenses required to move border 
        fences or markers due to an expansion under paragraph (1) shall 
        be the responsibility of the person making the request under 
        that paragraph.''.
    (h) Resource Management.--Section 529 of the Land Between the Lakes 
Protection Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 460lll-29) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(c) Historical Resources.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall identify and manage 
        the historical resources of the Recreation Area--
                    ``(A) in accordance with the requirements of 
                division A of subtitle III of title 54, United States 
                Code (formerly known as the `National Historic 
                Preservation Act'); and
                    ``(B) in coordination with qualified residents or 
                relatives.
            ``(2) Consideration.--The Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) give consideration to requests by qualified 
                residents or relatives to use and maintain traditional 
                sites, buildings, cemeteries, and other areas of 
                cultural importance in the Recreation Area; and
                    ``(B) work cooperatively with qualified residents 
                or relatives in the management of the historical 
                resources of the Recreation Area.''.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 551 of the Land 
Between the Lakes Protection Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 460lll-61) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Minimum Expenditure.--Subject to the availability of 
appropriations under subsection (a), the Secretary shall make available 
not less than $8,000,000 each fiscal year for the purposes of 
administering the Recreation Area (not including salaries and 
expenses).''.
                                 
