
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6879 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6879

   To award a Congressional Gold Medal in honor of those who led and 
 served during the first Task Force Pineapple mission to, directly and 
   indirectly, help Americans and Afghan special operators and their 
                               families.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 1, 2022

Mr. Cawthorn (for himself, Mr. Budd, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Mast, Mr. 
  Waltz, Mr. Mullin, and Mr. Donalds) introduced the following bill; 
   which was referred to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
 addition to the Committee on House Administration, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To award a Congressional Gold Medal in honor of those who led and 
 served during the first Task Force Pineapple mission to, directly and 
   indirectly, help Americans and Afghan special operators and their 
                               families.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Task Force Pineapple Congressional 
Gold Medal Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Task Force Pineapple, a group of veterans, worked 
        unofficially with the United States military and the United 
        States Embassy to safely rescue hundreds of Afghan special 
        operators and American citizens, bringing them into the United 
        States military-controlled part of the Hamid Karzai 
        International Airport as the United States was concluding its 
        withdrawal from Afghanistan.
            (2) These Afghan special operators served alongside the 
        United States military throughout the United States deployment 
        in Afghanistan, interpreting and putting their own lives on the 
        line to ally and assist the United States military.
            (3) Working alongside the United States military and the 
        United States Embassy, Task Force Pineapple was able to save an 
        estimate of 500 Afghan special operators and their families on 
        the first mission.

SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make 
appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the 
Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to Task Force Pineapple 
in recognition of the achievements of Task Force Pineapple.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For purposes of the presentation under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act 
as the ``Secretary'') shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, 
devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
    (c) Smithsonian Institution.--Following the award of the gold medal 
under subsection (a), the gold medal shall be given to the Smithsonian 
Institution, where it shall be available for display as appropriate and 
made available for research.

SEC. 4. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    (a) Striking of Duplicates.--Under such regulations as the 
Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may strike duplicates in bronze 
of the gold medal struck under section 3.
    (b) Selling of Duplicates.--The Secretary may sell such duplicates 
under subsection (a) at a price sufficient to cover the costs of such 
duplicates, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and 
overhead expenses.

SEC. 5. STATUS OF MEDALS.

    (a) National Medals.--Medals struck under this Act are national 
medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
    (b) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, 
United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be 
considered to be numismatic items.
                                 
