
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7286 Introduced in House (IH)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7286

  To establish a commission to assess the total cost spent on relief 
         during the COVID-19 pandemic, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 30, 2022

 Mr. Cawthorn introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                   Committee on Oversight and Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To establish a commission to assess the total cost spent on relief 
         during the COVID-19 pandemic, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``COVID-19 Excess Accountability and 
Surplus Expenditures Act'' or the ``CEASE Act''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is established a commission to be known as the ``COVID-19 
Funding Accountability Commission'' (in this Act referred to as the 
``Commission'').

SEC. 3. DUTIES OF COMMISSION.

    The Commission shall assess spending by the Federal Government 
related to relief during the COVID-19 pandemic, including--
            (1) the total amount of money spent by the Federal 
        Government on such relief;
            (2) the total amount of money designated by the Federal 
        Government for such relief that has been unspent as of the date 
        of the enactment of this Act; and
            (3) any other matters regarding such spending as the 
        Commission determines appropriate.

SEC. 4. MEMBERS.

    (a) Number and Appointment.--The Commission shall be composed of at 
least 2 but no more than 5 members from each agency (as such term is 
defined in section 551 of title 5, United States Code), appointed by 
the head of the relevant agency.
    (b) Detailees.--Each member so appointed shall be a detailee, on a 
non-reimbursable basis, to the Commission.
    (c) Terms.--Each member shall be appointed for the life of the 
Commission.
    (d) Compensation.--Members of the Commission shall not receive any 
additional compensation as a result of being such a member.

SEC. 5. POWERS OF COMMISSION.

    (a) Hearings.--The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out 
this Act, hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take 
testimony, and receive evidence as the Commission considers 
appropriate.
    (b) Obtaining Data.--The Commission may secure directly from any 
department or agency of the United States information necessary to 
enable the Commission to carry out this Act. Upon request of the 
Commission, the head of that department or agency shall furnish that 
information to the Commission.

SEC. 6. REPORT.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Commission shall submit to Congress a report containing a detailed 
statement of the findings and conclusions of the Commission, together 
with the recommendations of the Commission for legislation, 
administrative actions, and any other matters the Commission considers 
appropriate.

SEC. 7. TERMINATION.

    The Commission shall terminate after submitting the report to 
Congress pursuant to section 6.
                                 
