
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7314 Engrossed in House (EH)]


  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7314

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To require the Secretary of State to submit to Congress a report on the 
  People's Republic of China's support to the Russian Federation with 
   respect to its unprovoked invasion of and full-scale war against 
                    Ukraine, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Assessing Xi's Interference and 
Subversion Act'' or ``AXIS Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) On February 4, 2022, weeks ahead of the Russian 
        Federation's invasion of Ukraine, Russia and the People's 
        Republic of China released a joint statement following a 
        meeting between Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping, which outlined a 
        strategic partnership with ``no limits'' and no ``forbidden'' 
        areas for cooperation.
            (2) On February 24, 2022, Russia invaded Ukraine in an 
        unprovoked and unjustified act of war.
            (3) China abstained from voting on the February 25, 2022, 
        United Nations Security Council resolution and the March 2, 
        2022, United Nations General Assembly resolution condemning 
        Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
            (4) As of April 1, 2022, China has not publicly condemned 
        Russia's unprovoked and illegal invasion of Ukraine.
            (5) In his call with Xi Jinping on March 18, 2022, 
        President Joe Biden communicated that there would be 
        ``implications and consequences if China provides material 
        support to Russia as it conducts brutal attacks against 
        Ukrainian cities and civilians''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the People's Republic of China's disinformation efforts 
        relating to the Russian Federation's war against Ukraine make 
        it culpable in whitewashing Russia's war crimes, which include 
        the indiscriminate killing of countless Ukrainian men, women, 
        and children; and
            (2) if China is found to be materially supporting Russia in 
        its war against Ukraine, there should be swift and stringent 
        consequences for China.

SEC. 3. REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of 
State, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and the Director 
of National Intelligence as appropriate, shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report on whether and how the 
People's Republic of China, including the Government of the People's 
Republic of China, the Chinese Communist Party, any Chinese state-owned 
enterprise, and any other Chinese entity, has provided support to the 
Russian Federation with respect to its unprovoked invasion of and full-
scale war against Ukraine.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include a discussion of the People's Republic of China support to 
the Russian Federation with respect to--
            (1) helping the Government of Russia or Russian entities 
        evade or circumvent United States sanctions or multilateral 
        sanctions and export controls;
            (2) deliberately inhibiting onsite United States Government 
        export control end-use checks, including interviews and 
        investigations, in China;
            (3) providing Russia with any technology, including 
        semiconductors classified as EAR99, that supports Russian 
        intelligence or military capabilities;
            (4) establishing economic or financial arrangements that 
        will have the effect of alleviating the impact of United States 
        sanctions or multilateral sanctions;
            (5) furthering Russia's disinformation and propaganda 
        efforts;
            (6) coordinating to hinder the response of multilateral 
        organizations, including the United Nations, to provide 
        assistance to the people or Government of Ukraine, to condemn 
        Russia's war, to hold Russia accountable for the invasion and 
        its prosecution of the war, or to hold those complicit 
        accountable; and
            (7) providing any material, technical, or logistical 
        support, including to Russian military or intelligence agencies 
        and state-owned or state-linked enterprises.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form and published on the Department of State's 
publicly available website.
    (d) Sunset.--The requirement to submit the report required by 
subsection (a) shall terminate on the earlier of--
            (1) the date on which the Secretary of State determines the 
        conflict in Ukraine has ended; or
            (2) the date that is 2 years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.

            Passed the House of Representatives April 27, 2022.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
117th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 7314

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To require the Secretary of State to submit to Congress a report on the 
  People's Republic of China's support to the Russian Federation with 
   respect to its unprovoked invasion of and full-scale war against 
                    Ukraine, and for other purposes.
