
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 1017 Reported in House (RH)]







                                                  House Calendar No. 71
117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 1017

                          [Report No. 117-285]

 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3617) to decriminalize 
and deschedule cannabis, to provide for reinvestment in certain persons 
 adversely impacted by the War on Drugs, to provide for expungement of 
   certain cannabis offenses, and for other purposes; providing for 
   consideration of the bill (H.R. 6833) to amend title XXVII of the 
 Public Health Service Act, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and the 
     Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to establish 
requirements with respect to cost-sharing for certain insulin products, 
            and for other purposes; and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 31, 2022

  Mr. Perlmutter, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3617) to decriminalize 
and deschedule cannabis, to provide for reinvestment in certain persons 
 adversely impacted by the War on Drugs, to provide for expungement of 
   certain cannabis offenses, and for other purposes; providing for 
   consideration of the bill (H.R. 6833) to amend title XXVII of the 
 Public Health Service Act, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and the 
     Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to establish 
requirements with respect to cost-sharing for certain insulin products, 
            and for other purposes; and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3617) to decriminalize 
and deschedule cannabis, to provide for reinvestment in certain persons 
adversely impacted by the War on Drugs, to provide for expungement of 
certain cannabis offenses, and for other purposes. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on the 
Judiciary now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 117-37, 
modified by the amendment printed in part A of the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be considered as 
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
the Judiciary or their respective designees; (2) the further amendments 
described in section 2 of this resolution; and (3) one motion to 
recommit.
    Sec. 2.  After debate pursuant to the first section of this 
resolution, each further amendment printed in part B of the report of 
the Committee on Rules shall be considered only in the order printed in 
the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, 
shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified 
in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an 
opponent, may be withdrawn by the proponent at any time before the 
question is put thereon, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall 
not be subject to a demand for division of the question. All points of 
order against the further amendments printed in part B of the report of 
the Committee on Rules are waived.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 6833) to amend title XXVII of the 
Public Health Service Act, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and the 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to establish 
requirements with respect to cost-sharing for certain insulin products, 
and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. An amendment in the nature of a substitute 
consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 117-38, modified by the 
amendment printed in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution, shall be considered as adopted. The bill, 
as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any 
further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided among and controlled by 
the respective chairs and ranking minority members of the Committees on 
Education and Labor, Energy and Commerce, and Ways and Means, or their 
respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 4.  House Resolution 188, agreed to March 8, 2021 (as most 
recently amended by House Resolution 900, agreed to February 2, 2022), 
is amended by striking ``April 1, 2022'' each place it appears and 
inserting (in each instance) ``April 29, 2022''.
                                                  House Calendar No. 71

117th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 1017

                          [Report No. 117-285]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3617) to decriminalize 
and deschedule cannabis, to provide for reinvestment in certain persons 
 adversely impacted by the War on Drugs, to provide for expungement of 
   certain cannabis offenses, and for other purposes; providing for 
   consideration of the bill (H.R. 6833) to amend title XXVII of the 
 Public Health Service Act, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and the 
     Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to establish 
requirements with respect to cost-sharing for certain insulin products, 
            and for other purposes; and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             March 31, 2022

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
